apps/docs/src/pages/composables/forms/create-form.md, before:

---
title: createForm - Reactive Form Validation for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Build reactive forms with validation, field registration, and submission handling. Supports async rules, pristine tracking, and multiple validation modes.
- name: keywords
  content: createForm, form, validation, composable, Vue 3, registry, field registration, async validation
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createForm'
  github: /composables/createForm/
  level: 3
related:
  - /composables/registration/create-registry
---

# createForm

A composable for building reactive forms with validation, field registration, and submission handling. Built on top of the registry system for managing form fields.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The form composables provide a powerful interface for managing form state, validation, and submission. Built on the registry pattern, they handle form-specific requirements like validation rules, error states, and field lifecycle management.

### Creating a Form

Use `createForm` to create a new form instance:

```ts
import { createForm } from '@vuetify/v0'

const form = createForm()

const email = form.register({
  id: 'email',
  value: '',
  rules: [
    (value) => value.includes('@') || 'Must be a valid email',
    (value) => value.length > 0 || 'Required'
  ]
})

console.log(email.value) // ''
console.log(email.errors.value) // []
```

### Injecting a Form Context

Use `useForm` to inject an existing form context (typically provided by a parent component):

```ts
import { useForm } from '@vuetify/v0'

// Injects the form context provided by an ancestor
const form = useForm()
```

## Architecture

`createForm` extends `createRegistry` with validation capabilities:

```mermaid "Form Validation Flow"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createForm
  createForm --> useForm
  useForm --> validate[validate/validateAll]
  useForm --> reset[reset/resetAll]
  useForm --> errors[error collection]
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/forms/create-form.md, after:

---
title: createForm - Reactive Form Validation for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Build reactive forms with validation, field registration, and submission handling. Supports async rules, pristine tracking, and multiple validation modes.
- name: keywords
  content: createForm, form, validation, composable, Vue 3, registry, field registration, async validation
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createForm'
  github: /composables/createForm/
  level: 3
related:
  - /composables/registration/create-registry
---

# createForm

A composable for building reactive forms with validation, field registration, and submission handling. Built on top of the registry system for managing form fields.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The form composables provide a powerful interface for managing form state, validation, and submission. Built on the registry pattern, they handle form-specific requirements like validation rules, error states, and field lifecycle management.

### Creating a Form

Use `createForm` to create a new form instance:

```ts
import { createForm } from '@vuetify/v0'

const form = createForm()

const email = form.register({
  id: 'email',
  value: '',
  rules: [
    (value) => value.includes('@') || 'Must be a valid email',
    (value) => value.length > 0 || 'Required'
  ]
})

console.log(email.value) // ''
console.log(email.errors.value) // []
```

### Injecting a Form Context

Use `useForm` to inject an existing form context (typically provided by a parent component):

```ts
import { useForm } from '@vuetify/v0'

// Injects the form context provided by an ancestor
const form = useForm()
```

## Reactivity

`createForm` adds **reactive validation state** on top of `createRegistry`. Form-level and field-level state are fully reactive.

| Property/Method | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `isValid` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from all fields |
| `isValidating` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from all fields |
| `ticket.value` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | ShallowRef, triggers validation on change |
| `ticket.errors` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | ShallowRef array |
| `ticket.isValid` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | ShallowRef (null/true/false) |
| `ticket.isPristine` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | ShallowRef boolean |
| `ticket.isValidating` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | ShallowRef boolean |
| `get(id)` | <AppErrorIcon /> | Returns ticket with reactive refs |
| `values()` | <AppErrorIcon /> | Use `useProxyRegistry()` for reactive collection |

## Architecture

`createForm` extends `createRegistry` with validation capabilities:

```mermaid "Form Validation Flow"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createForm
  createForm --> useForm
  useForm --> validate[validate/validateAll]
  useForm --> reset[reset/resetAll]
  useForm --> errors[error collection]
```

<DocsApi />
