apps/docs/src/pages/composables/foundation/create-plugin.md, before:

---
title: createPlugin - Vue Plugin Factory with Context Support
meta:
- name: description
  content: Factory for creating Vue plugins with standardized context provision. Simplifies plugin creation with automatic app-level context injection and cleanup.
- name: keywords
  content: createPlugin, Vue plugin, plugin factory, composable, context provision, app-level state, Vue 3
features:
  category: Factory
  label: 'E: createPlugin'
  github: /composables/createPlugin/
  level: 3
related:
  - /composables/foundation/create-context
  - /composables/foundation/create-trinity
  - /guide/fundamentals/plugins
---

# createPlugin

This composable allows you to create a Vue plugin with specific functionality that can be registered and used within your application.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

Use in conjunction with the [createContext](/composables/foundation/create-context "createContext Documentation") composable to make [Vue plugins](https://vuejs.org/guide/reusability/plugins "Vue Plugins Documentation") that work seemlessly with [Vue Provide / Inject](https://vuejs.org/guide/components/provide-inject "Vue Provide / Inject Documentation").

```ts
import { createContext, createPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'

interface MyPluginContext {
  app: string
}

// use is the inject function and provide is the provide function
export const [useMyContext, provideMyContext] = createContext<MyPluginContext>('provide-namespace')

export function createMyPlugin () {
  const context = {
    app: 'my-app'
  }

  return createPlugin({
    namespace: 'provide-namespace',
    provide: (app: App) => {
      provideMyContext(context, app)
    },
    setup: (app: App) => {
      // For everything else not provide related
    }
  })
}
```

> [!TIP]
> The **setup** and **provide** functions do the same thing, they are separated for semantic purposes.

Then, in your main application file, register the plugin like so:

```ts { resource="src/main.ts" }
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createMyPlugin } from './path/to/plugin'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(createMyPlugin())
```

Now, whenever your application starts, the plugin is registered and the context is provided. Use the `useMyContext` function to access this context in any component:

```vue { resource="src/components/MyComponent.vue" }
<template>
  <div>{{ context.app }}</div>
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useMyContext } from './path/to/plugin'

  const context = useMyContext()
</script>
```

## Architecture

`createPlugin` wraps `createContext` for Vue plugin registration:

```mermaid "Plugin Architecture"
flowchart LR
  subgraph Plugin
    A[namespace]
    B[provide]
    C[setup]
  end

  createContext --> B
  A --> install
  B --> install
  C --> install
  install --> app.runWithContext
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/foundation/create-plugin.md, after:

---
title: createPlugin - Vue Plugin Factory with Context Support
meta:
- name: description
  content: Factory for creating Vue plugins with standardized context provision. Simplifies plugin creation with automatic app-level context injection and cleanup.
- name: keywords
  content: createPlugin, Vue plugin, plugin factory, composable, context provision, app-level state, Vue 3
features:
  category: Factory
  label: 'E: createPlugin'
  github: /composables/createPlugin/
  level: 3
related:
  - /composables/foundation/create-context
  - /composables/foundation/create-trinity
  - /guide/fundamentals/plugins
---

# createPlugin

This composable allows you to create a Vue plugin with specific functionality that can be registered and used within your application.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

Use in conjunction with the [createContext](/composables/foundation/create-context "createContext Documentation") composable to make [Vue plugins](https://vuejs.org/guide/reusability/plugins "Vue Plugins Documentation") that work seemlessly with [Vue Provide / Inject](https://vuejs.org/guide/components/provide-inject "Vue Provide / Inject Documentation").

```ts
import { createContext, createPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'

interface MyPluginContext {
  app: string
}

// use is the inject function and provide is the provide function
export const [useMyContext, provideMyContext] = createContext<MyPluginContext>('provide-namespace')

export function createMyPlugin () {
  const context = {
    app: 'my-app'
  }

  return createPlugin({
    namespace: 'provide-namespace',
    provide: (app: App) => {
      provideMyContext(context, app)
    },
    setup: (app: App) => {
      // For everything else not provide related
    }
  })
}
```

> [!TIP]
> The **setup** and **provide** functions do the same thing, they are separated for semantic purposes.

Then, in your main application file, register the plugin like so:

```ts { resource="src/main.ts" }
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createMyPlugin } from './path/to/plugin'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(createMyPlugin())
```

Now, whenever your application starts, the plugin is registered and the context is provided. Use the `useMyContext` function to access this context in any component:

```vue { resource="src/components/MyComponent.vue" }
<template>
  <div>{{ context.app }}</div>
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useMyContext } from './path/to/plugin'

  const context = useMyContext()
</script>
```

## Architecture

`createPlugin` wraps `createContext` for Vue plugin registration:

```mermaid "Plugin Architecture"
flowchart LR
  subgraph Plugin
    A[namespace]
    B[provide]
    C[setup]
  end

  createContext --> B
  A --> install
  B --> install
  C --> install
  install --> app.runWithContext
```

## Reactivity

`createPlugin` is a **factory function** that returns a Vue plugin object. It does not introduce reactivity—it's a vehicle for providing contexts at app level.

> [!TIP] Reactivity lives in what you provide
> The plugin is just the delivery mechanism. Reactive state comes from the contexts you provide via `provideContext()`.

<DocsApi />
