apps/docs/src/pages/composables/system/use-toggle-scope.md, before:

---
title: useToggleScope - Conditional Effect Scope for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Conditionally manage Vue effect scopes based on reactive boolean conditions. Watchers and effects automatically clean up when the scope stops or toggles off.
- name: keywords
  content: effect scope, toggle, conditional, lifecycle, cleanup, Vue 3, composable, reactive
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: useToggleScope'
  github: /composables/useToggleScope/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/system/use-event-listener
---

# useToggleScope

A composable for conditionally managing Vue effect scopes based on reactive boolean conditions with automatic cleanup.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `useToggleScope` composable wraps Vue's `effectScope` API to create and destroy reactive effect scopes based on a boolean condition. When the condition becomes true, a new scope is created and your callback runs. When false, the scope is stopped and all effects are cleaned up automatically.

```vue UseToggleScope
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useToggleScope } from '@vuetify/v0'
  import { shallowRef, watch } from 'vue'

  const isEnabled = shallowRef(false)
  const data = shallowRef(0)

  const { isActive } = useToggleScope(isEnabled, () => {
    // This watch is only active when isEnabled is true
    watch(data, (value) => {
      console.log('Data changed:', value)
    })
  })
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <button @click="isEnabled = !isEnabled">
      {{ isEnabled ? 'Disable' : 'Enable' }} Watcher
    </button>
    <p>Scope active: {{ isActive }}</p>
    <input v-model.number="data" type="number">
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useToggleScope` wraps Vue's effectScope for conditional reactive effect management:

```mermaid "Toggle Scope Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  effectScope["Vue effectScope"] --> useToggleScope
  useToggleScope --> FeatureFlags["Feature Flags"]
  useToggleScope --> ConditionalPolling["Conditional Polling"]
  useToggleScope --> DebugMode["Debug Mode"]
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/system/use-toggle-scope.md, after:

---
title: useToggleScope - Conditional Effect Scope for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Conditionally manage Vue effect scopes based on reactive boolean conditions. Watchers and effects automatically clean up when the scope stops or toggles off.
- name: keywords
  content: effect scope, toggle, conditional, lifecycle, cleanup, Vue 3, composable, reactive
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: useToggleScope'
  github: /composables/useToggleScope/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/system/use-event-listener
---

# useToggleScope

A composable for conditionally managing Vue effect scopes based on reactive boolean conditions with automatic cleanup.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `useToggleScope` composable wraps Vue's `effectScope` API to create and destroy reactive effect scopes based on a boolean condition. When the condition becomes true, a new scope is created and your callback runs. When false, the scope is stopped and all effects are cleaned up automatically.

```vue UseToggleScope
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useToggleScope } from '@vuetify/v0'
  import { shallowRef, watch } from 'vue'

  const isEnabled = shallowRef(false)
  const data = shallowRef(0)

  const { isActive } = useToggleScope(isEnabled, () => {
    // This watch is only active when isEnabled is true
    watch(data, (value) => {
      console.log('Data changed:', value)
    })
  })
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <button @click="isEnabled = !isEnabled">
      {{ isEnabled ? 'Disable' : 'Enable' }} Watcher
    </button>
    <p>Scope active: {{ isActive }}</p>
    <input v-model.number="data" type="number">
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useToggleScope` wraps Vue's effectScope for conditional reactive effect management:

```mermaid "Toggle Scope Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  effectScope["Vue effectScope"] --> useToggleScope
  useToggleScope --> FeatureFlags["Feature Flags"]
  useToggleScope --> ConditionalPolling["Conditional Polling"]
  useToggleScope --> DebugMode["Debug Mode"]
```

## Reactivity

| Property/Method | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `isActive` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from scope ref |
| `source` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | WatchSource, triggers scope on/off |

<DocsApi />
