apps/docs/src/pages/composables/system/use-lazy.md, before:

---
title: useLazy - Deferred Content Rendering for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Defer rendering of heavy content until first activation. Perfect for dialogs, menus, tooltips, and components with conditionally rendered content.
- name: keywords
  content: useLazy, lazy loading, deferred rendering, performance, Vue 3, composable
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: useLazy'
  github: /composables/useLazy/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/system/use-toggle-scope
  - /composables/system/use-intersection-observer
---

# useLazy

A composable for deferring content rendering until first activation, with optional reset on deactivation.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `useLazy` composable tracks whether content has been activated at least once. Content renders only after first activation (unless eager mode is enabled), reducing initial render cost for components like dialogs, menus, and tooltips.

::: example
/composables/use-lazy/basic
:::

## Architecture

```mermaid "useLazy Lifecycle"
stateDiagram-v2
  [*] --> Idle: initial
  Idle --> Booted: active = true
  Booted --> Booted: active toggles
  Booted --> Idle: reset() / onAfterLeave()
```

<DocsApi />

## Eager Mode

Use the `eager` option to render content immediately without waiting for activation:

```ts
const { hasContent } = useLazy(isOpen, { eager: true })
// hasContent.value is always true
```

The `eager` option accepts a reactive value for dynamic control:

```ts
const props = defineProps<{ eager: boolean }>()
const { hasContent } = useLazy(isOpen, {
  eager: toRef(() => props.eager),
})
```

## Transition Integration

The `onAfterLeave` callback resets the lazy state after the leave transition completes (unless eager mode is enabled):

```vue
<template>
  <Transition @after-leave="onAfterLeave">
    <div v-if="isOpen">
      <template v-if="hasContent">
        <!-- Heavy content -->
      </template>
    </div>
  </Transition>
</template>
```

This allows memory to be reclaimed when the content is hidden, while preserving the content during the leave animation.

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/system/use-lazy.md, after:

---
title: useLazy - Deferred Content Rendering for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Defer rendering of heavy content until first activation. Perfect for dialogs, menus, tooltips, and components with conditionally rendered content.
- name: keywords
  content: useLazy, lazy loading, deferred rendering, performance, Vue 3, composable
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: useLazy'
  github: /composables/useLazy/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/system/use-toggle-scope
  - /composables/system/use-intersection-observer
---

# useLazy

A composable for deferring content rendering until first activation, with optional reset on deactivation.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `useLazy` composable tracks whether content has been activated at least once. Content renders only after first activation (unless eager mode is enabled), reducing initial render cost for components like dialogs, menus, and tooltips.

::: example
/composables/use-lazy/basic
:::

## Architecture

```mermaid "useLazy Lifecycle"
stateDiagram-v2
  [*] --> Idle: initial
  Idle --> Booted: active = true
  Booted --> Booted: active toggles
  Booted --> Idle: reset() / onAfterLeave()
```

## Reactivity

| Property/Method | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `isBooted` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | ShallowRef, readonly |
| `hasContent` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `isBooted \|\| eager \|\| active` |
| `active` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Accepts MaybeRefOrGetter, watched for changes |
| `eager` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Accepts MaybeRefOrGetter in options |

<DocsApi />

## Eager Mode

Use the `eager` option to render content immediately without waiting for activation:

```ts
const { hasContent } = useLazy(isOpen, { eager: true })
// hasContent.value is always true
```

The `eager` option accepts a reactive value for dynamic control:

```ts
const props = defineProps<{ eager: boolean }>()
const { hasContent } = useLazy(isOpen, {
  eager: toRef(() => props.eager),
})
```

## Transition Integration

The `onAfterLeave` callback resets the lazy state after the leave transition completes (unless eager mode is enabled):

```vue
<template>
  <Transition @after-leave="onAfterLeave">
    <div v-if="isOpen">
      <template v-if="hasContent">
        <!-- Heavy content -->
      </template>
    </div>
  </Transition>
</template>
```

This allows memory to be reclaimed when the content is hidden, while preserving the content during the leave animation.
