apps/docs/src/pages/composables/system/use-mutation-observer.md, before:

---
title: useMutationObserver - DOM Change Detection for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Detect DOM changes with Mutation Observer API. Monitor attributes, child elements, and text content with automatic cleanup and pause/resume controls for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: mutation observer, DOM changes, mutations, attributes, Vue 3, composable, reactive
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: useMutationObserver'
  github: /composables/useMutationObserver/
  level: 3
related:
  - /composables/system/use-resize-observer
  - /composables/system/use-intersection-observer
---

# useMutationObserver

A composable for detecting DOM changes using the Mutation Observer API with automatic cleanup.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `useMutationObserver` composable wraps the Mutation Observer API to detect changes to the DOM tree. It's useful for monitoring attribute changes, child element modifications, and character data updates.

```vue UseMutationObserver
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useMutationObserver } from '@vuetify/v0'
  import { ref, useTemplateRef } from 'vue'

  const target = useTemplateRef('target')
  const mutationCount = ref(0)

  useMutationObserver(target, (mutations) => {
    mutationCount.value += mutations.length
    mutations.forEach(mutation => {
      console.log('Type:', mutation.type)
      console.log('Added nodes:', mutation.addedNodes)
      console.log('Removed nodes:', mutation.removedNodes)
    })
  }, {
    childList: true,
    attributes: true,
    attributeOldValue: true
  })
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <div ref="target">
      <p>Mutations detected: {{ mutationCount }}</p>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useMutationObserver` wraps the native MutationObserver API with Vue reactivity:

```mermaid "Mutation Observer Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  MutationObserver["MutationObserver API"] --> useMutationObserver
  useHydration --> useMutationObserver
  useMutationObserver --> DOMSync["DOM Sync"]
  useMutationObserver --> ContentChanges["Content Change Detection"]
  useMutationObserver --> AttributeWatch["Attribute Watching"]
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/system/use-mutation-observer.md, after:

---
title: useMutationObserver - DOM Change Detection for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Detect DOM changes with Mutation Observer API. Monitor attributes, child elements, and text content with automatic cleanup and pause/resume controls for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: mutation observer, DOM changes, mutations, attributes, Vue 3, composable, reactive
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: useMutationObserver'
  github: /composables/useMutationObserver/
  level: 3
related:
  - /composables/system/use-resize-observer
  - /composables/system/use-intersection-observer
---

# useMutationObserver

A composable for detecting DOM changes using the Mutation Observer API with automatic cleanup.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `useMutationObserver` composable wraps the Mutation Observer API to detect changes to the DOM tree. It's useful for monitoring attribute changes, child element modifications, and character data updates.

```vue UseMutationObserver
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useMutationObserver } from '@vuetify/v0'
  import { ref, useTemplateRef } from 'vue'

  const target = useTemplateRef('target')
  const mutationCount = ref(0)

  useMutationObserver(target, (mutations) => {
    mutationCount.value += mutations.length
    mutations.forEach(mutation => {
      console.log('Type:', mutation.type)
      console.log('Added nodes:', mutation.addedNodes)
      console.log('Removed nodes:', mutation.removedNodes)
    })
  }, {
    childList: true,
    attributes: true,
    attributeOldValue: true
  })
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <div ref="target">
      <p>Mutations detected: {{ mutationCount }}</p>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useMutationObserver` wraps the native MutationObserver API with Vue reactivity:

```mermaid "Mutation Observer Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  MutationObserver["MutationObserver API"] --> useMutationObserver
  useHydration --> useMutationObserver
  useMutationObserver --> DOMSync["DOM Sync"]
  useMutationObserver --> ContentChanges["Content Change Detection"]
  useMutationObserver --> AttributeWatch["Attribute Watching"]
```

## Reactivity

| Property/Method | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `isActive` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from observer ref |
| `isPaused` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | ShallowRef, readonly |
| `target` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Accepts MaybeRef, watched for changes |

<DocsApi />
