apps/docs/src/pages/composables/utilities/create-pagination.md, before:

---
title: createPagination - Lightweight Page Navigation for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Lightweight composable for pagination state. Includes navigation methods (first, last, next, prev), computed visible pages, and v-model binding for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: createPagination, pagination, navigation, composable, Vue 3, pages, page state, goto
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createPagination'
  github: /composables/createPagination/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/utilities/create-filter
  - /components/semantic/pagination
---

# createPagination

A lightweight composable for managing pagination state with navigation methods and computed visible page items.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `createPagination` composable provides reactive pagination state management with navigation methods and automatic computation of visible page items with ellipsis support.

```ts
import { ref } from 'vue'
import { createPagination } from '@vuetify/v0'

const pagination = createPagination({
  size: 200, // Total items
  itemsPerPage: 10,
  visible: 5,
})

console.log(pagination.pages) // 20 (200 items / 10 per page)
console.log(pagination.items.value)
// [
//   { type: 'page', value: 1 },
//   { type: 'page', value: 2 },
//   { type: 'page', value: 3 },
//   { type: 'ellipsis', value: '…' },
//   { type: 'page', value: 20 }
// ]
```

## Architecture

`createPagination` computes page state and navigation:

```mermaid "Pagination Flow"
flowchart LR
  size --> pages[total pages]
  page --> items[visible items]
  pages --> items
  visible --> items
  page --> pageStart/pageStop
```

## API Pattern

| Function | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `createPagination(options)` | Factory - returns a pagination context |
| `createPaginationContext(options)` | Factory with DI - returns `[usePagination, providePagination, pagination]` trinity |
| `usePagination(namespace?)` | Injection getter - retrieves provided pagination context |

### Basic Usage

```ts
const pagination = createPagination({
  size: 100,
  itemsPerPage: 10,
})

pagination.next() // Go to next page
pagination.goto(5) // Go to page 5
```

### With Dependency Injection

```ts
// Create context with DI support
const [usePagination, providePagination, pagination] = createPaginationContext({
  namespace: 'app:pagination',
  itemsPerPage: 20,
})

// In parent component
providePagination()

// In child component
const pagination = usePagination()
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/utilities/create-pagination.md, after:

---
title: createPagination - Lightweight Page Navigation for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Lightweight composable for pagination state. Includes navigation methods (first, last, next, prev), computed visible pages, and v-model binding for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: createPagination, pagination, navigation, composable, Vue 3, pages, page state, goto
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createPagination'
  github: /composables/createPagination/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/utilities/create-filter
  - /components/semantic/pagination
---

# createPagination

A lightweight composable for managing pagination state with navigation methods and computed visible page items.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `createPagination` composable provides reactive pagination state management with navigation methods and automatic computation of visible page items with ellipsis support.

```ts
import { ref } from 'vue'
import { createPagination } from '@vuetify/v0'

const pagination = createPagination({
  size: 200, // Total items
  itemsPerPage: 10,
  visible: 5,
})

console.log(pagination.pages) // 20 (200 items / 10 per page)
console.log(pagination.items.value)
// [
//   { type: 'page', value: 1 },
//   { type: 'page', value: 2 },
//   { type: 'page', value: 3 },
//   { type: 'ellipsis', value: '…' },
//   { type: 'page', value: 20 }
// ]
```

## Architecture

`createPagination` computes page state and navigation:

```mermaid "Pagination Flow"
flowchart LR
  size --> pages[total pages]
  page --> items[visible items]
  pages --> items
  visible --> items
  page --> pageStart/pageStop
```

## API Pattern

| Function | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `createPagination(options)` | Factory - returns a pagination context |
| `createPaginationContext(options)` | Factory with DI - returns `[usePagination, providePagination, pagination]` trinity |
| `usePagination(namespace?)` | Injection getter - retrieves provided pagination context |

### Basic Usage

```ts
const pagination = createPagination({
  size: 100,
  itemsPerPage: 10,
})

pagination.next() // Go to next page
pagination.goto(5) // Go to page 5
```

### With Dependency Injection

```ts
// Create context with DI support
const [usePagination, providePagination, pagination] = createPaginationContext({
  namespace: 'app:pagination',
  itemsPerPage: 20,
})

// In parent component
providePagination()

// In child component
const pagination = usePagination()
```

## Reactivity

| Property/Method | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `page` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | ShallowRef, supports v-model binding |
| `items` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed, visible page buttons with ellipsis |
| `pageStart` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed, start index for current page |
| `pageStop` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed, end index for current page |
| `isFirst` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed, true when on first page |
| `isLast` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed, true when on last page |

> [!TIP] v-model support
> Pass a ref as the `page` option to enable two-way binding with your component's page state.

<DocsApi />
