apps/docs/src/pages/composables/index.md, before:

---
title: Vuetify0 Composables - Vue 3 Headless Primitives
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Type-safe Vue 3 composables for headless UI. Selection, forms, theming, tokens, and state management primitives for building custom design systems.
  - name: keywords
    content: composables, Vue 3, headless ui, primitives, selection, forms, theming, state management, TypeScript
features:
  level: 1
related:
  - /guide/core
  - /components
---

# Composables

Type-safe composables for headless UI. Components wrap these composables—you can use either approach.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Foundation

Core factories that provide the foundation for all other composables.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [createContext](/composables/foundation/create-context) | Create reusable context to share state across components |
| [createPlugin](/composables/foundation/create-plugin) | Create Vue plugins with standardized patterns |
| [createTrinity](/composables/foundation/create-trinity) | Create context provider/consumer pattern utilities |

## Registration

Collection management and data structure primitives.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [createRegistry](/composables/registration/create-registry) | Foundation for registration-based systems |
| [createQueue](/composables/registration/create-queue) | Time-based queue management with automatic timeouts |
| [createTimeline](/composables/registration/create-timeline) | Bounded undo/redo system with fixed-size history |
| [createTokens](/composables/registration/create-tokens) | Design token management system |

## Selection

State management for single and multi-selection patterns.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [createSelection](/composables/selection/create-selection) | General selection state management |
| [createSingle](/composables/selection/create-single) | Single-selection with automatic deselection |
| [createGroup](/composables/selection/create-group) | Multi-selection with tri-state support |
| [createStep](/composables/selection/create-step) | Sequential navigation for wizards and steppers |

## Forms

Form state management and model binding utilities.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [createForm](/composables/forms/create-form) | Form state management and validation |

## Reactivity

Reactive proxy utilities for bridging state.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [useProxyModel](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-model) | Bridge selection context to v-model binding |
| [useProxyRegistry](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-registry) | Proxy-based registry with automatic reactivity |

## System

Browser API wrappers with automatic lifecycle cleanup.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [useClickOutside](/composables/system/use-click-outside) | Detect clicks outside an element |
| [useEventListener](/composables/system/use-event-listener) | Handle DOM events with automatic cleanup |
| [useHotkey](/composables/system/use-hotkey) | Handle hotkey combinations and sequences |
| [useIntersectionObserver](/composables/system/use-intersection-observer) | Intersection Observer API for visibility detection |
| [useMediaQuery](/composables/system/use-media-query) | Reactive CSS media query matching |
| [useMutationObserver](/composables/system/use-mutation-observer) | Mutation Observer API for DOM change detection |
| [useResizeObserver](/composables/system/use-resize-observer) | Resize Observer API for element size changes |
| [useToggleScope](/composables/system/use-toggle-scope) | Conditional effect scope management |

## Plugins

Application-level features installable via Vue plugins.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [useBreakpoints](/composables/plugins/use-breakpoints) | Responsive breakpoint detection |
| [useFeatures](/composables/plugins/use-features) | Feature flags and A/B testing |
| [useHydration](/composables/plugins/use-hydration) | SSR hydration management |
| [useLocale](/composables/plugins/use-locale) | Internationalization system |
| [useLogger](/composables/plugins/use-logger) | Logging system with multiple adapters |
| [usePermissions](/composables/plugins/use-permissions) | Role-based access control |
| [useStorage](/composables/plugins/use-storage) | Reactive browser storage interface |
| [useTheme](/composables/plugins/use-theme) | Theme management with CSS custom properties |

## Utilities

Standalone helpers for common UI patterns.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [useFilter](/composables/utilities/use-filter) | Filter arrays based on search queries |
| [useOverflow](/composables/utilities/use-overflow) | Compute item capacity for responsive truncation |
| [usePagination](/composables/utilities/use-pagination) | Pagination state with navigation methods |
| [useVirtual](/composables/utilities/use-virtual) | Virtual scrolling for large lists |

## Transformers

Value transformation utilities.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [toArray](/composables/transformers/to-array) | Convert any value to an array |
| [toReactive](/composables/transformers/to-reactive) | Convert MaybeRef objects to reactive proxies |

Commit message:

docs(useDate): add composable documentation
- Add comprehensive useDate docs with API reference
- Cover installation, usage, format presets/tokens
- Document locale integration and Vuetify 3 bridge
- Add to composables index

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/index.md, after:

---
title: Vuetify0 Composables - Vue 3 Headless Primitives
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Type-safe Vue 3 composables for headless UI. Selection, forms, theming, tokens, and state management primitives for building custom design systems.
  - name: keywords
    content: composables, Vue 3, headless ui, primitives, selection, forms, theming, state management, TypeScript
features:
  level: 1
related:
  - /guide/core
  - /components
---

# Composables

Type-safe composables for headless UI. Components wrap these composables—you can use either approach.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Foundation

Core factories that provide the foundation for all other composables.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [createContext](/composables/foundation/create-context) | Create reusable context to share state across components |
| [createPlugin](/composables/foundation/create-plugin) | Create Vue plugins with standardized patterns |
| [createTrinity](/composables/foundation/create-trinity) | Create context provider/consumer pattern utilities |

## Registration

Collection management and data structure primitives.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [createRegistry](/composables/registration/create-registry) | Foundation for registration-based systems |
| [createQueue](/composables/registration/create-queue) | Time-based queue management with automatic timeouts |
| [createTimeline](/composables/registration/create-timeline) | Bounded undo/redo system with fixed-size history |
| [createTokens](/composables/registration/create-tokens) | Design token management system |

## Selection

State management for single and multi-selection patterns.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [createSelection](/composables/selection/create-selection) | General selection state management |
| [createSingle](/composables/selection/create-single) | Single-selection with automatic deselection |
| [createGroup](/composables/selection/create-group) | Multi-selection with tri-state support |
| [createStep](/composables/selection/create-step) | Sequential navigation for wizards and steppers |

## Forms

Form state management and model binding utilities.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [createForm](/composables/forms/create-form) | Form state management and validation |

## Reactivity

Reactive proxy utilities for bridging state.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [useProxyModel](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-model) | Bridge selection context to v-model binding |
| [useProxyRegistry](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-registry) | Proxy-based registry with automatic reactivity |

## System

Browser API wrappers with automatic lifecycle cleanup.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [useClickOutside](/composables/system/use-click-outside) | Detect clicks outside an element |
| [useEventListener](/composables/system/use-event-listener) | Handle DOM events with automatic cleanup |
| [useHotkey](/composables/system/use-hotkey) | Handle hotkey combinations and sequences |
| [useIntersectionObserver](/composables/system/use-intersection-observer) | Intersection Observer API for visibility detection |
| [useMediaQuery](/composables/system/use-media-query) | Reactive CSS media query matching |
| [useMutationObserver](/composables/system/use-mutation-observer) | Mutation Observer API for DOM change detection |
| [useResizeObserver](/composables/system/use-resize-observer) | Resize Observer API for element size changes |
| [useToggleScope](/composables/system/use-toggle-scope) | Conditional effect scope management |

## Plugins

Application-level features installable via Vue plugins.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [useBreakpoints](/composables/plugins/use-breakpoints) | Responsive breakpoint detection |
| [useDate](/composables/plugins/use-date) | Date manipulation with Temporal API and locale-aware formatting |
| [useFeatures](/composables/plugins/use-features) | Feature flags and A/B testing |
| [useHydration](/composables/plugins/use-hydration) | SSR hydration management |
| [useLocale](/composables/plugins/use-locale) | Internationalization system |
| [useLogger](/composables/plugins/use-logger) | Logging system with multiple adapters |
| [usePermissions](/composables/plugins/use-permissions) | Role-based access control |
| [useStorage](/composables/plugins/use-storage) | Reactive browser storage interface |
| [useTheme](/composables/plugins/use-theme) | Theme management with CSS custom properties |

## Utilities

Standalone helpers for common UI patterns.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [useFilter](/composables/utilities/use-filter) | Filter arrays based on search queries |
| [useOverflow](/composables/utilities/use-overflow) | Compute item capacity for responsive truncation |
| [usePagination](/composables/utilities/use-pagination) | Pagination state with navigation methods |
| [useVirtual](/composables/utilities/use-virtual) | Virtual scrolling for large lists |

## Transformers

Value transformation utilities.

| Name | Description |
| - | - |
| [toArray](/composables/transformers/to-array) | Convert any value to an array |
| [toReactive](/composables/transformers/to-reactive) | Convert MaybeRef objects to reactive proxies |
