apps/docs/src/pages/composables/selection/create-single.md, before:

---
title: createSingle - Single-Selection State for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Single-item selection with automatic deselection. Extends createSelection for radio buttons, tabs, and exclusive choice patterns. Base for theme/locale.
- name: keywords
  content: createSingle, single selection, radio button, tabs, exclusive, composable, Vue 3, state management
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createSingle'
  github: /composables/createSingle/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/selection/create-selection
  - /composables/selection/create-step
  - /components/providers/single
---

# createSingle

A composable that extends `createSelection` to enforce single-item selection. Automatically clears the previous selection before selecting a new item, ensuring only one item is selected at any time.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `createSingle` composable is used when you have a **collection of items** but want to allow **only one** to be selected at any time.

```ts
import { createSingle } from '@vuetify/v0'

const single = createSingle()

// Register items first
single.register({ id: 'apple', value: 'Apple' })
single.register({ id: 'banana', value: 'Banana' })

// Select by ID
single.select('apple')
console.log(single.selectedId.value) // 'apple'
console.log(single.selectedValue.value) // 'Apple'

// Selecting a new item automatically clears the previous selection
single.select('banana')
console.log(single.selectedId.value) // 'banana' (replaces apple)
```

## Architecture

The `createSingle` composable is comprised of the following hierarchy:

```mermaid "Single Selection Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createSelection
  createSelection --> createSingle
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/selection/create-single.md, after:

---
title: createSingle - Single-Selection State for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Single-item selection with automatic deselection. Extends createSelection for radio buttons, tabs, and exclusive choice patterns. Base for theme/locale.
- name: keywords
  content: createSingle, single selection, radio button, tabs, exclusive, composable, Vue 3, state management
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createSingle'
  github: /composables/createSingle/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/selection/create-selection
  - /composables/selection/create-step
  - /components/providers/single
---

# createSingle

A composable that extends `createSelection` to enforce single-item selection. Automatically clears the previous selection before selecting a new item, ensuring only one item is selected at any time.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `createSingle` composable is used when you have a **collection of items** but want to allow **only one** to be selected at any time.

```ts
import { createSingle } from '@vuetify/v0'

const single = createSingle()

// Register items first
single.register({ id: 'apple', value: 'Apple' })
single.register({ id: 'banana', value: 'Banana' })

// Select by ID
single.select('apple')
console.log(single.selectedId.value) // 'apple'
console.log(single.selectedValue.value) // 'Apple'

// Selecting a new item automatically clears the previous selection
single.select('banana')
console.log(single.selectedId.value) // 'banana' (replaces apple)
```

## Architecture

The `createSingle` composable is comprised of the following hierarchy:

```mermaid "Single Selection Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createSelection
  createSelection --> createSingle
```

## Reactivity

Single-selection state is **always reactive**. All computed properties update automatically when the selection changes.

| Property/Method | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `selectedId` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedIds` |
| `selectedItem` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedId` |
| `selectedValue` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedItem` |
| `selectedIndex` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedItem` |
| ticket `isSelected` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedIds` |

> [!TIP] Perfect for UI controls
> `selectedId`, `selectedValue`, and `selectedIndex` work directly in templates without any extra setup.

<DocsApi />
