apps/docs/src/pages/composables/selection/create-group.md, before:

---
title: createGroup - Multi-Selection with Tri-State Support
meta:
- name: description
  content: Multi-selection composable with tri-state support. Manage checkbox trees with indeterminate states, batch operations, and select-all patterns for Vue 3 apps.
- name: keywords
  content: createGroup, selection, group selection, composable, Vue 3, indeterminate, tri-state, checkbox tree, select all
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createGroup'
  github: /composables/createGroup/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/selection/create-selection
  - /components/providers/group
---

# createGroup

The `createGroup` composable is designed to manage a group of related components, allowing for shared state and behavior across them. It supports tri-state (mixed/indeterminate) for checkbox trees and similar use cases where items can be selected, unselected, or in a mixed state.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `createGroup` composable manages a group of selectable items, letting you work with both their IDs and their position indexes.
It supports selecting, unselecting, toggling, and reading the indexes of selected items.

```ts
import { createGroup } from '@vuetify/v0'

// Instantiate group
const group = createGroup()

// Register items
group.register({ id: 'apple', value: 'Apple' })
group.register({ id: 'banana', value: 'Banana' })
group.register({ id: 'cherry', value: 'Cherry' })
group.register({ id: 'date', value: 'Date' })

// Select some items
group.select(['apple', 'banana'])
console.log(group.selectedIndexes.value) // Set { 0, 1 }

// Toggle an item (banana will become unselected)
group.toggle('banana')
console.log(group.selectedIndexes.value) // Set { 0 }

// Unselect apple
group.unselect('apple')
console.log(group.selectedIndexes.value) // Set {}
```

## Examples

::: example
/composables/create-group/chip-filter
:::

## Architecture

`createGroup` extends `createSelection` with multi-select and tri-state capabilities:

```mermaid "Group Selection Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createSelection
  createSelection --> createGroup
  createGroup --> mixedIds[mixedIds Set]
  createGroup --> selectedIds[selectedIds Set]
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/selection/create-group.md, after:

---
title: createGroup - Multi-Selection with Tri-State Support
meta:
- name: description
  content: Multi-selection composable with tri-state support. Manage checkbox trees with indeterminate states, batch operations, and select-all patterns for Vue 3 apps.
- name: keywords
  content: createGroup, selection, group selection, composable, Vue 3, indeterminate, tri-state, checkbox tree, select all
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createGroup'
  github: /composables/createGroup/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/selection/create-selection
  - /components/providers/group
---

# createGroup

The `createGroup` composable is designed to manage a group of related components, allowing for shared state and behavior across them. It supports tri-state (mixed/indeterminate) for checkbox trees and similar use cases where items can be selected, unselected, or in a mixed state.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

The `createGroup` composable manages a group of selectable items, letting you work with both their IDs and their position indexes.
It supports selecting, unselecting, toggling, and reading the indexes of selected items.

```ts
import { createGroup } from '@vuetify/v0'

// Instantiate group
const group = createGroup()

// Register items
group.register({ id: 'apple', value: 'Apple' })
group.register({ id: 'banana', value: 'Banana' })
group.register({ id: 'cherry', value: 'Cherry' })
group.register({ id: 'date', value: 'Date' })

// Select some items
group.select(['apple', 'banana'])
console.log(group.selectedIndexes.value) // Set { 0, 1 }

// Toggle an item (banana will become unselected)
group.toggle('banana')
console.log(group.selectedIndexes.value) // Set { 0 }

// Unselect apple
group.unselect('apple')
console.log(group.selectedIndexes.value) // Set {}
```

## Examples

::: example
/composables/create-group/chip-filter
:::

## Architecture

`createGroup` extends `createSelection` with multi-select and tri-state capabilities:

```mermaid "Group Selection Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createSelection
  createSelection --> createGroup
  createGroup --> mixedIds[mixedIds Set]
  createGroup --> selectedIds[selectedIds Set]
```

## Reactivity

Group selection state is **always reactive**, including the tri-state `mixedIds` set.

| Property/Method | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `selectedIds` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | `shallowReactive(Set)` — always reactive |
| `mixedIds` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | `shallowReactive(Set)` — tracks indeterminate state |
| `selectedIndexes` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedIds` |
| `isAllSelected` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedIds` and collection size |
| `selectedItems` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedIds` |
| `selectedValues` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedItems` |
| ticket `isSelected` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Computed from `selectedIds` |

> [!TIP] Tri-state support
> `mixedIds` is reactive and updates automatically for indeterminate checkbox states in tree structures.

<DocsApi />
