apps/docs/src/pages/guide/tooling/vuetify-cli.md, before:

---
title: Vuetify CLI - Project Scaffolding & Management
features:
  label: Vuetify CLI
  order: 1
  level: 1
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Scaffold and manage v0 projects with the official CLI. Create new projects, update dependencies, and analyze usage.
  - name: keywords
    content: vuetify cli, create-vuetify0, scaffolding, project generator, vuetify update, v0
related:
  - /guide/tooling/ai-tools
  - /guide/tooling/vuetify-mcp
  - /guide/integration/nuxt
logo: vcli
---

# Vuetify CLI

The Vuetify CLI is a tooling ecosystem for scaffolding and managing Vuetify projects. It provides interactive project generation, intelligent dependency updates, and codebase analysis.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Packages

| Package | Binary | Purpose |
| - | - | - |
| [@vuetify/cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vuetify/cli) | `vuetify` | Full CLI with all commands |
| [create-vuetify0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-vuetify0) | `create-vuetify0` | Scaffold [v0](/introduction/getting-started) projects |

## Installation

Install the CLI globally to access all commands:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm add -g @vuetify/cli
```

```bash npm
npm install -g @vuetify/cli
```

```bash yarn
yarn global add @vuetify/cli
```

```bash bun
bun add -g @vuetify/cli
```

:::

Or run commands without installing using `dlx`/`npx`:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli <command>
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli <command>
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli <command>
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli <command>
```

:::

## Quick Start

Create a new v0 project with the interactive wizard:

```bash
vuetify init
```

Or use the standalone scaffolding package without installing the CLI:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm create vuetify0
```

```bash npm
npm create vuetify0
```

```bash yarn
yarn create vuetify0
```

```bash bun
bun create vuetify0
```

:::

## Commands

| Command | Description |
| - | - |
| `vuetify init` | Initialize a new project |
| `vuetify add eslint` | Add ESLint with Vuetify config |
| `vuetify add mcp` | Add MCP server configuration |
| `vuetify update` | Update Vuetify packages |
| `vuetify docs` | Open version-specific documentation |
| `vuetify analyze` | Scan codebase for usage patterns |
| `vuetify upgrade` | Self-upgrade the CLI |

### init

Initialize a new project (wrapper around `create-vuetify0`):

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli init my-app
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli init my-app
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli init my-app
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli init my-app
```

:::

### add

Add integrations to existing projects:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
# Add ESLint with Vuetify config
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli add eslint

# Add MCP server configuration
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli add mcp
```

```bash npm
# Add ESLint with Vuetify config
npx @vuetify/cli add eslint

# Add MCP server configuration
npx @vuetify/cli add mcp
```

```bash yarn
# Add ESLint with Vuetify config
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli add eslint

# Add MCP server configuration
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli add mcp
```

```bash bun
# Add ESLint with Vuetify config
bunx @vuetify/cli add eslint

# Add MCP server configuration
bunx @vuetify/cli add mcp
```

:::

> [!TIP]
> The `add mcp` command configures [Vuetify MCP](/guide/tooling/vuetify-mcp) for your IDE automatically.

### update

Update all Vuetify packages to their latest versions:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
# Update to latest stable
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli update

# Update to nightly builds
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli update --nightly
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli update
npx @vuetify/cli update --nightly
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli update
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli update --nightly
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli update
bunx @vuetify/cli update --nightly
```

:::

The update command auto-detects and updates:

- `vuetify`
- `@vuetify/*` packages
- `vuetify-nuxt-module`
- `@nuxtjs/vuetify`
- `vite-plugin-vuetify`
- `eslint-plugin-vuetify`
- `eslint-config-vuetify`

### docs

Open version-specific Vuetify documentation:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli docs
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli docs
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli docs
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli docs
```

:::

> [!INFO]
> The CLI auto-detects your installed Vuetify version and opens the correct documentation site.

### analyze

Scan your codebase for Vuetify usage patterns:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
# Console output
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli analyze

# JSON output for tooling
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli analyze --reporter json
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli analyze
npx @vuetify/cli analyze --reporter json
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli analyze
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli analyze --reporter json
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli analyze
bunx @vuetify/cli analyze --reporter json
```

:::

The analyzer scans your project and detects all imports from `@vuetify/v0`:

- **Components** — `VBtn`, `VCard`, `VDataTable`, etc.
- **Composables** — `useDisplay`, `useTheme`, `useFilter`, etc.
- **Plugins** — `createVuetify`, `createIconsPlugin`, etc.
- **Utilities and constants**

#### Custom Documentation URL

After analyzing your project, the CLI generates a **personalized documentation URL**:

```
https://0.vuetifyjs.com/?features=VBtn,VCard,useDisplay,...
```

This URL filters the v0 documentation to show **only the features you're actually using**, giving you a focused, clutter-free reference tailored to your project. Share this URL with your team to onboard developers faster.

#### Migration Planning

The analyze command is invaluable for migration planning:

1. Run `vuetify analyze` on your existing Vuetify 3 project
2. Review which components and composables you're using
3. Check the generated URL to see v0 equivalents and migration paths
4. Use `--reporter json` to integrate with CI/CD or custom tooling

> [!ASKAI] How can I use the analyze command to plan a Vuetify migration?

### upgrade

Self-upgrade the CLI to the latest version:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli upgrade
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli upgrade
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli upgrade
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli upgrade
```

:::

## Scaffolding Options

The interactive wizard guides you through project configuration:

| Step | Options |
| - | - |
| Project Name | Your project directory name |
| Platform | [Vue](https://vuejs.org) + [Vite](https://vite.dev), [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com) |
| CSS Framework | [UnoCSS](https://unocss.dev), [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com), None |
| TypeScript | Yes, No |
| Router (Vue only) | [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org), File-based, None |
| Features | ESLint, [Pinia](https://pinia.vuejs.org), [i18n](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev), MCP |

### Platforms

| Platform | Description |
| - | - |
| Vue + Vite | Standard Vue 3 SPA with [Vite](https://vite.dev) |
| Nuxt | [Nuxt 3/4](https://nuxt.com) with SSR/SSG support |

### CSS Frameworks

| Framework | Description |
| - | - |
| [UnoCSS](https://unocss.dev) | Instant atomic CSS engine |
| [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com) | Utility-first CSS |
| None | No CSS framework |

### Router Options (Vue only)

| Option | Description |
| - | - |
| [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org) | Standard routing |
| File-based | Auto-generated routes from file structure |
| None | No routing |

### Features

| Feature | Description |
| - | - |
| ESLint | [Vuetify ESLint config](https://github.com/vuetifyjs/eslint-config-vuetify) |
| [Pinia](https://pinia.vuejs.org) | State management |
| [i18n](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev) | Internationalization |
| MCP | [Vuetify MCP](/guide/tooling/vuetify-mcp) server config |

## Non-Interactive Mode

For CI/CD pipelines and automation, pass arguments directly:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm create vuetify0 my-app \
  --platform=vue \
  --css=unocss \
  --router=router \
  --features=eslint,pinia \
  --install
```

```bash npm
npm create vuetify0 my-app -- \
  --platform=vue \
  --css=unocss \
  --router=router \
  --features=eslint,pinia \
  --install
```

```bash yarn
yarn create vuetify0 my-app \
  --platform=vue \
  --css=unocss \
  --router=router \
  --features=eslint,pinia \
  --install
```

```bash bun
bun create vuetify0 my-app \
  --platform=vue \
  --css=unocss \
  --router=router \
  --features=eslint,pinia \
  --install
```

:::

### All Arguments

| Argument | Values | Description |
| - | - | - |
| `--platform` | `vue`, `nuxt` | Target platform |
| `--css` | `unocss`, `tailwindcss`, `none` | CSS framework |
| `--no-typescript` | flag | Use JavaScript instead of TypeScript |
| `--router` | `router`, `file-router`, `none` | Router type (Vue only) |
| `--features` | `eslint`, `pinia`, `i18n`, `mcp` | Features to include (comma-separated) |
| `--install` | flag | Auto-install dependencies |
| `--force` | flag | Overwrite existing directory |

> [!WARNING]
> The `--force` flag will overwrite existing files without confirmation.

Commit message:

docs: simplify analyze section, remove migration focus

apps/docs/src/pages/guide/tooling/vuetify-cli.md, after:

---
title: Vuetify CLI - Project Scaffolding & Management
features:
  label: Vuetify CLI
  order: 1
  level: 1
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Scaffold and manage v0 projects with the official CLI. Create new projects, update dependencies, and analyze usage.
  - name: keywords
    content: vuetify cli, create-vuetify0, scaffolding, project generator, vuetify update, v0
related:
  - /guide/tooling/ai-tools
  - /guide/tooling/vuetify-mcp
  - /guide/integration/nuxt
logo: vcli
---

# Vuetify CLI

The Vuetify CLI is a tooling ecosystem for scaffolding and managing Vuetify projects. It provides interactive project generation, intelligent dependency updates, and codebase analysis.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Packages

| Package | Binary | Purpose |
| - | - | - |
| [@vuetify/cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vuetify/cli) | `vuetify` | Full CLI with all commands |
| [create-vuetify0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-vuetify0) | `create-vuetify0` | Scaffold [v0](/introduction/getting-started) projects |

## Installation

Install the CLI globally to access all commands:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm add -g @vuetify/cli
```

```bash npm
npm install -g @vuetify/cli
```

```bash yarn
yarn global add @vuetify/cli
```

```bash bun
bun add -g @vuetify/cli
```

:::

Or run commands without installing using `dlx`/`npx`:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli <command>
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli <command>
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli <command>
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli <command>
```

:::

## Quick Start

Create a new v0 project with the interactive wizard:

```bash
vuetify init
```

Or use the standalone scaffolding package without installing the CLI:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm create vuetify0
```

```bash npm
npm create vuetify0
```

```bash yarn
yarn create vuetify0
```

```bash bun
bun create vuetify0
```

:::

## Commands

| Command | Description |
| - | - |
| `vuetify init` | Initialize a new project |
| `vuetify add eslint` | Add ESLint with Vuetify config |
| `vuetify add mcp` | Add MCP server configuration |
| `vuetify update` | Update Vuetify packages |
| `vuetify docs` | Open version-specific documentation |
| `vuetify analyze` | Scan codebase for usage patterns |
| `vuetify upgrade` | Self-upgrade the CLI |

### init

Initialize a new project (wrapper around `create-vuetify0`):

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli init my-app
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli init my-app
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli init my-app
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli init my-app
```

:::

### add

Add integrations to existing projects:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
# Add ESLint with Vuetify config
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli add eslint

# Add MCP server configuration
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli add mcp
```

```bash npm
# Add ESLint with Vuetify config
npx @vuetify/cli add eslint

# Add MCP server configuration
npx @vuetify/cli add mcp
```

```bash yarn
# Add ESLint with Vuetify config
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli add eslint

# Add MCP server configuration
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli add mcp
```

```bash bun
# Add ESLint with Vuetify config
bunx @vuetify/cli add eslint

# Add MCP server configuration
bunx @vuetify/cli add mcp
```

:::

> [!TIP]
> The `add mcp` command configures [Vuetify MCP](/guide/tooling/vuetify-mcp) for your IDE automatically.

### update

Update all Vuetify packages to their latest versions:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
# Update to latest stable
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli update

# Update to nightly builds
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli update --nightly
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli update
npx @vuetify/cli update --nightly
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli update
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli update --nightly
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli update
bunx @vuetify/cli update --nightly
```

:::

The update command auto-detects and updates:

- `vuetify`
- `@vuetify/*` packages
- `vuetify-nuxt-module`
- `@nuxtjs/vuetify`
- `vite-plugin-vuetify`
- `eslint-plugin-vuetify`
- `eslint-config-vuetify`

### docs

Open version-specific Vuetify documentation:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli docs
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli docs
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli docs
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli docs
```

:::

> [!INFO]
> The CLI auto-detects your installed Vuetify version and opens the correct documentation site.

### analyze

Scan your codebase for Vuetify usage patterns:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
# Console output
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli analyze

# JSON output for tooling
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli analyze --reporter json
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli analyze
npx @vuetify/cli analyze --reporter json
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli analyze
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli analyze --reporter json
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli analyze
bunx @vuetify/cli analyze --reporter json
```

:::

The analyzer scans your project and detects all imports from `@vuetify/v0`:

- **Components** — `VBtn`, `VCard`, `VDataTable`, etc.
- **Composables** — `useDisplay`, `useTheme`, `useFilter`, etc.
- **Plugins** — `createVuetify`, `createIconsPlugin`, etc.
- **Utilities and constants**

#### Custom Documentation URL

After analyzing your project, the CLI generates a **personalized documentation URL**:

```
https://0.vuetifyjs.com/?features=VBtn,VCard,useDisplay,...
```

This URL filters the v0 documentation to show **only the features you're actually using**, giving you a focused, clutter-free reference tailored to your project. Share this URL with your team to onboard developers faster.

#### JSON Output

Use `--reporter json` to integrate with CI/CD pipelines or custom tooling:

```bash
vuetify analyze --reporter json --output report.json
```

> [!ASKAI] How can I use the analyze command to plan a Vuetify migration?

### upgrade

Self-upgrade the CLI to the latest version:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx @vuetify/cli upgrade
```

```bash npm
npx @vuetify/cli upgrade
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx @vuetify/cli upgrade
```

```bash bun
bunx @vuetify/cli upgrade
```

:::

## Scaffolding Options

The interactive wizard guides you through project configuration:

| Step | Options |
| - | - |
| Project Name | Your project directory name |
| Platform | [Vue](https://vuejs.org) + [Vite](https://vite.dev), [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com) |
| CSS Framework | [UnoCSS](https://unocss.dev), [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com), None |
| TypeScript | Yes, No |
| Router (Vue only) | [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org), File-based, None |
| Features | ESLint, [Pinia](https://pinia.vuejs.org), [i18n](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev), MCP |

### Platforms

| Platform | Description |
| - | - |
| Vue + Vite | Standard Vue 3 SPA with [Vite](https://vite.dev) |
| Nuxt | [Nuxt 3/4](https://nuxt.com) with SSR/SSG support |

### CSS Frameworks

| Framework | Description |
| - | - |
| [UnoCSS](https://unocss.dev) | Instant atomic CSS engine |
| [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com) | Utility-first CSS |
| None | No CSS framework |

### Router Options (Vue only)

| Option | Description |
| - | - |
| [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org) | Standard routing |
| File-based | Auto-generated routes from file structure |
| None | No routing |

### Features

| Feature | Description |
| - | - |
| ESLint | [Vuetify ESLint config](https://github.com/vuetifyjs/eslint-config-vuetify) |
| [Pinia](https://pinia.vuejs.org) | State management |
| [i18n](https://vue-i18n.intlify.dev) | Internationalization |
| MCP | [Vuetify MCP](/guide/tooling/vuetify-mcp) server config |

## Non-Interactive Mode

For CI/CD pipelines and automation, pass arguments directly:

::: code-group no-filename

```bash pnpm
pnpm create vuetify0 my-app \
  --platform=vue \
  --css=unocss \
  --router=router \
  --features=eslint,pinia \
  --install
```

```bash npm
npm create vuetify0 my-app -- \
  --platform=vue \
  --css=unocss \
  --router=router \
  --features=eslint,pinia \
  --install
```

```bash yarn
yarn create vuetify0 my-app \
  --platform=vue \
  --css=unocss \
  --router=router \
  --features=eslint,pinia \
  --install
```

```bash bun
bun create vuetify0 my-app \
  --platform=vue \
  --css=unocss \
  --router=router \
  --features=eslint,pinia \
  --install
```

:::

### All Arguments

| Argument | Values | Description |
| - | - | - |
| `--platform` | `vue`, `nuxt` | Target platform |
| `--css` | `unocss`, `tailwindcss`, `none` | CSS framework |
| `--no-typescript` | flag | Use JavaScript instead of TypeScript |
| `--router` | `router`, `file-router`, `none` | Router type (Vue only) |
| `--features` | `eslint`, `pinia`, `i18n`, `mcp` | Features to include (comma-separated) |
| `--install` | flag | Auto-install dependencies |
| `--force` | flag | Overwrite existing directory |

> [!WARNING]
> The `--force` flag will overwrite existing files without confirmation.
