apps/docs/src/pages/guide/fundamentals/benchmarks.md, before:

---
title: Benchmarks - Performance Metrics and Size Ratings
features:
  order: 5
  level: 3
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Understand Vuetify0 benchmark methodology, performance tiers, and size ratings. Learn what gets benchmarked and how to interpret metrics.
  - name: keywords
    content: vuetify0, benchmarks, performance, metrics, size ratings, ops/s, vitest bench
related:
  - /composables
  - /guide/fundamentals/core
---

# Benchmarks

v0 maintains performance benchmarks for all core composables. This page explains what gets benchmarked, how to interpret metrics, and what the performance tiers mean.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Why Benchmark

Headless UI libraries must be fast—they're foundational infrastructure. v0 benchmarks exist to:

1. **Catch regressions** — CI fails if performance drops
2. **Guide optimization** — Data-driven decisions, not guesses
3. **Set expectations** — Users know what to expect at scale
4. **Validate minimal reactivity** — Prove the tradeoffs are worth it

## What Gets Benchmarked

### Core Composables

| Composable | Why It's Benchmarked |
| - | - |
| [createRegistry](/composables/registration/create-registry) | Foundation for all collections—performance here affects everything |
| [createTokens](/composables/registration/create-tokens) | Design tokens can grow large—alias resolution must scale |
| [createFilter](/composables/utilities/create-filter) | Search/filter on large datasets must remain responsive |
| [createVirtual](/composables/utilities/create-virtual) | Virtual scrolling is performance-critical by definition |
| [useDate](/composables/plugins/use-date) | Date operations are frequent in UIs |

### Operation Categories

Each benchmark file covers multiple operation types:

| Category | Fixture Type | What It Measures |
| - | - | - |
| Initialization | Fresh | Setup/creation cost |
| Lookup operations | Shared | Single item access (O(1) expected) |
| Mutation operations | Fresh | Updates and modifications |
| Batch operations | Fresh | Bulk actions (onboard, offboard) |
| Computed access | Shared | Cached/derived value reads |
| Seek operations | Shared | Directional search |

**Shared fixtures** reuse the same data structure across iterations—safe for read-only operations.

**Fresh fixtures** create new data per iteration—required for mutations to get accurate measurements.

## Performance Tiers

<div class="grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-3 gap-4 my-6">
  <div class="border border-divider rounded-lg p-4 bg-surface">
    <div class="flex items-center gap-2 mb-3">
      <AppIcon icon="benchmark-blazing" class="text-error" :size="20" />
      <span class="font-semibold text-error">Blazing Fast</span>
    </div>
    <div class="text-sm text-on-surface-variant space-y-1">
      <div>O(1): ≥100,000 ops/s</div>
      <div>O(n): ≥10,000 ops/s</div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="border border-divider rounded-lg p-4 bg-surface">
    <div class="flex items-center gap-2 mb-3">
      <AppIcon icon="benchmark-fast" class="text-warning" :size="20" />
      <span class="font-semibold text-warning">Fast</span>
    </div>
    <div class="text-sm text-on-surface-variant space-y-1">
      <div>O(1): ≥10,000 ops/s</div>
      <div>O(n): ≥1,000 ops/s</div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="border border-divider rounded-lg p-4 bg-surface">
    <div class="flex items-center gap-2 mb-3">
      <AppIcon icon="benchmark-good" class="text-info" :size="20" />
      <span class="font-semibold text-info">Good</span>
    </div>
    <div class="text-sm text-on-surface-variant space-y-1">
      <div>O(1): Below fast</div>
      <div>O(n): Below fast</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

The tier is determined by the **fastest benchmark** in each file.

### Complexity Detection

Tiers adjust based on detected algorithmic complexity:

| Pattern in Benchmark Name | Complexity |
| - | - |
| "single item", "single query" | O(1) |
| "1,000 items", "all keys" | O(n) |
| "nested", "recursive" | O(n²) |

### Reading Results

```
✓ createRegistry/index.bench.ts
  lookup operations
    ✓ Get item by id (1,000 items)     1,234,567 ops/s
    ✓ Get item by id (10,000 items)    1,198,432 ops/s
```

- **ops/s** — Operations per second (higher is better)
- **Consistent across sizes** — O(1) complexity confirmed
- **10x data, ~same speed** — Good scaling behavior

## Dataset Sizes

Benchmarks test multiple sizes to reveal complexity:

| Size | Items | Purpose |
| - | - | - |
| Medium | 1,000 | Baseline measurement |
| Large | 10,000 | Reveals O(n) vs O(1) |
| Small | 100 | Optional edge case |
| Stress | 100,000 | Optional stress test |

If a 10,000-item benchmark is 10x slower than 1,000-item, the operation is O(n). If it's roughly the same speed, it's O(1).

## Running Benchmarks

```bash
# Run all benchmarks
pnpm test:bench

# Run specific file
pnpm vitest bench packages/0/src/composables/createRegistry/index.bench.ts

# Generate metrics report
pnpm metrics
```

## Interpreting for Your Use Case

::: faq single
??? Is this fast enough for my app?

Most v0 composables handle 10,000+ items at interactive speeds (>60fps). For typical UIs:

- **<100 items** — Instant, no optimization needed
- **100-1,000 items** — Smooth, standard usage
- **1,000-10,000 items** — Consider virtual scrolling
- **10,000+ items** — Use [createVirtual](/composables/utilities/create-virtual), paginate, or filter

??? Should I use events or polling?

- **Events** — Real-time updates, notifications, debugging
- **Polling (`values()`)** — Periodic snapshots, non-critical freshness
- **[useProxyRegistry](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-registry)** — Template-bound lists that must stay current

Events add minimal overhead when enabled. Benchmarks show raw operation cost; event emission adds ~1-5% overhead.

??? Why minimal reactivity instead of full reactivity?

Vue's reactivity system is powerful but not free. Each reactive wrapper adds:

- Memory for dependency tracking
- CPU cycles for change detection
- Potential for unnecessary re-renders

By keeping reactivity minimal, v0 composables stay predictable—you know exactly what triggers updates. When you need reactivity, opt in explicitly with [useProxyRegistry](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-registry).

??? How do I compare raw vs reactive performance?

Compare [createRegistry](/composables/registration/create-registry) benchmarks with [useProxyRegistry](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-registry) to see the reactivity overhead. It's worth it when needed, but shouldn't be the default.
:::

## Contributing Benchmarks

New composables should include benchmarks if they:

- Manage collections (registries, arrays, maps)
- Perform search/filter operations
- Have user-perceived latency (loading, transitions)
- Are called frequently (every render, every keystroke)

See [createRegistry benchmarks](https://github.com/vuetifyjs/v0/blob/master/packages/0/src/composables/createRegistry/index.bench.ts) for the canonical example.

Commit message:

docs: add benchmark explorer with interactive filtering and grouping
Replace flat benchmark tables with an expandable explorer component
using v0 composables (createGroup, createFilter). Features summary
cards, tier badges, performance bars, group descriptions, and
per-composable embed mode.

apps/docs/src/pages/guide/fundamentals/benchmarks.md, after:

---
title: Benchmarks - Performance Metrics and Size Ratings
features:
  order: 5
  level: 3
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Understand Vuetify0 benchmark methodology, performance tiers, and size ratings. Learn what gets benchmarked and how to interpret metrics.
  - name: keywords
    content: vuetify0, benchmarks, performance, metrics, size ratings, ops/s, vitest bench
related:
  - /composables
  - /guide/fundamentals/core
---

# Benchmarks

v0 maintains performance benchmarks for all core composables. This page explains what gets benchmarked, how to interpret metrics, and what the performance tiers mean.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Why Benchmark

Headless UI libraries must be fast—they're foundational infrastructure. v0 benchmarks exist to:

1. **Catch regressions** — CI fails if performance drops
2. **Guide optimization** — Data-driven decisions, not guesses
3. **Set expectations** — Users know what to expect at scale
4. **Validate minimal reactivity** — Prove the tradeoffs are worth it

## What Gets Benchmarked

### Core Composables

| Composable | Why It's Benchmarked |
| - | - |
| [createRegistry](/composables/registration/create-registry) | Foundation for all collections—performance here affects everything |
| [createTokens](/composables/registration/create-tokens) | Design tokens can grow large—alias resolution must scale |
| [createFilter](/composables/utilities/create-filter) | Search/filter on large datasets must remain responsive |
| [createVirtual](/composables/utilities/create-virtual) | Virtual scrolling is performance-critical by definition |
| [useDate](/composables/plugins/use-date) | Date operations are frequent in UIs |

### Operation Categories

Each benchmark file covers multiple operation types:

| Category | Fixture Type | What It Measures |
| - | - | - |
| Initialization | Fresh | Setup/creation cost |
| Lookup operations | Shared | Single item access (O(1) expected) |
| Mutation operations | Fresh | Updates and modifications |
| Batch operations | Fresh | Bulk actions (onboard, offboard) |
| Computed access | Shared | Cached/derived value reads |
| Seek operations | Shared | Directional search |

**Shared fixtures** reuse the same data structure across iterations—safe for read-only operations.

**Fresh fixtures** create new data per iteration—required for mutations to get accurate measurements.

## Performance Tiers

<div class="grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-3 gap-4 my-6">
  <div class="border border-divider rounded-lg p-4 bg-surface">
    <div class="flex items-center gap-2 mb-3">
      <AppIcon icon="benchmark-blazing" class="text-error" :size="20" />
      <span class="font-semibold text-error">Blazing Fast</span>
    </div>
    <div class="text-sm text-on-surface-variant space-y-1">
      <div>O(1): ≥100,000 ops/s</div>
      <div>O(n): ≥10,000 ops/s</div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="border border-divider rounded-lg p-4 bg-surface">
    <div class="flex items-center gap-2 mb-3">
      <AppIcon icon="benchmark-fast" class="text-warning" :size="20" />
      <span class="font-semibold text-warning">Fast</span>
    </div>
    <div class="text-sm text-on-surface-variant space-y-1">
      <div>O(1): ≥10,000 ops/s</div>
      <div>O(n): ≥1,000 ops/s</div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="border border-divider rounded-lg p-4 bg-surface">
    <div class="flex items-center gap-2 mb-3">
      <AppIcon icon="benchmark-good" class="text-info" :size="20" />
      <span class="font-semibold text-info">Good</span>
    </div>
    <div class="text-sm text-on-surface-variant space-y-1">
      <div>O(1): Below fast</div>
      <div>O(n): Below fast</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

The tier is determined by the **fastest benchmark** in each file.

### Complexity Detection

Tiers adjust based on detected algorithmic complexity:

| Pattern in Benchmark Name | Complexity |
| - | - |
| "single item", "single query" | O(1) |
| "1,000 items", "all keys" | O(n) |
| "nested", "recursive" | O(n²) |

### Reading Results

```
✓ createRegistry/index.bench.ts
  lookup operations
    ✓ Get item by id (1,000 items)     1,234,567 ops/s
    ✓ Get item by id (10,000 items)    1,198,432 ops/s
```

- **ops/s** — Operations per second (higher is better)
- **Consistent across sizes** — O(1) complexity confirmed
- **10x data, ~same speed** — Good scaling behavior

## Dataset Sizes

Benchmarks test multiple sizes to reveal complexity:

| Size | Items | Purpose |
| - | - | - |
| Medium | 1,000 | Baseline measurement |
| Large | 10,000 | Reveals O(n) vs O(1) |
| Small | 100 | Optional edge case |
| Stress | 100,000 | Optional stress test |

If a 10,000-item benchmark is 10x slower than 1,000-item, the operation is O(n). If it's roughly the same speed, it's O(1).

## Running Benchmarks

```bash
# Run all benchmarks
pnpm test:bench

# Run specific file
pnpm vitest bench packages/0/src/composables/createRegistry/index.bench.ts

# Generate metrics report
pnpm metrics
```

## Interpreting for Your Use Case

::: faq single
??? Is this fast enough for my app?

Most v0 composables handle 10,000+ items at interactive speeds (>60fps). For typical UIs:

- **<100 items** — Instant, no optimization needed
- **100-1,000 items** — Smooth, standard usage
- **1,000-10,000 items** — Consider virtual scrolling
- **10,000+ items** — Use [createVirtual](/composables/utilities/create-virtual), paginate, or filter

??? Should I use events or polling?

- **Events** — Real-time updates, notifications, debugging
- **Polling (`values()`)** — Periodic snapshots, non-critical freshness
- **[useProxyRegistry](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-registry)** — Template-bound lists that must stay current

Events add minimal overhead when enabled. Benchmarks show raw operation cost; event emission adds ~1-5% overhead.

??? Why minimal reactivity instead of full reactivity?

Vue's reactivity system is powerful but not free. Each reactive wrapper adds:

- Memory for dependency tracking
- CPU cycles for change detection
- Potential for unnecessary re-renders

By keeping reactivity minimal, v0 composables stay predictable—you know exactly what triggers updates. When you need reactivity, opt in explicitly with [useProxyRegistry](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-registry).

??? How do I compare raw vs reactive performance?

Compare [createRegistry](/composables/registration/create-registry) benchmarks with [useProxyRegistry](/composables/reactivity/use-proxy-registry) to see the reactivity overhead. It's worth it when needed, but shouldn't be the default.
:::

## Explorer

Browse all benchmark results. Filter by composable, performance tier, or search for specific operations.

<BenchmarkExplorer />

## Contributing Benchmarks

New composables should include benchmarks if they:

- Manage collections (registries, arrays, maps)
- Perform search/filter operations
- Have user-perceived latency (loading, transitions)
- Are called frequently (every render, every keystroke)

See [createRegistry benchmarks](https://github.com/vuetifyjs/v0/blob/master/packages/0/src/composables/createRegistry/index.bench.ts) for the canonical example.
