apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-logger.md, before:

---
title: useLogger - Adapter-Based Logging for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: A composable for application logging with configurable adapters, log levels,
    and filtering that supports popular logging libraries like Consola and Pino.
- name: keywords
  content: useLogger, logging, debug, consola, pino, logger adapter, log levels, composable
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: useLogger'
  github: /composables/useLogger/
  level: 2
related:
  - /guide/fundamentals/plugins
---

# useLogger

The `useLogger` composable provides a flexible, adapter-based logging system for Vue applications. It supports multiple log levels, runtime enable/disable toggling, and integrates seamlessly with popular logging libraries like Consola and Pino through a simple adapter pattern.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Installation

Install the Logger plugin in your app's entry point:

```ts main.ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createLoggerPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(
  createLoggerPlugin({
    level: 'debug',
    prefix: '[MyApp]',
  })
)

app.mount('#app')
```

## Usage

Once the plugin is installed, use the `useLogger` composable in any component:

```vue UseLogger
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useLogger } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const logger = useLogger()

  logger.info('Component mounted')
  logger.debug('Debug information', { userId: 123 })
  logger.warn('Warning message')
  logger.error('Error occurred', new Error('Something went wrong'))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Check the console for logs</h1>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useLogger` uses the plugin pattern with a log adapter:

```mermaid "Logger Plugin"
flowchart LR
  createLoggerPlugin --> createContext
  createContext --> LoggerContext
  LoggerContext --> Adapter[ConsoleAdapter/PinoAdapter/ConsolaAdapter]
  Adapter --> output[console/file/etc]
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-logger.md, after:

---
title: useLogger - Adapter-Based Logging for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: A composable for application logging with configurable adapters, log levels,
    and filtering that supports popular logging libraries like Consola and Pino.
- name: keywords
  content: useLogger, logging, debug, consola, pino, logger adapter, log levels, composable
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: useLogger'
  github: /composables/useLogger/
  level: 2
related:
  - /guide/fundamentals/plugins
---

# useLogger

The `useLogger` composable provides a flexible, adapter-based logging system for Vue applications. It supports multiple log levels, runtime enable/disable toggling, and integrates seamlessly with popular logging libraries like Consola and Pino through a simple adapter pattern.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Installation

Install the Logger plugin in your app's entry point:

```ts main.ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createLoggerPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(
  createLoggerPlugin({
    level: 'debug',
    prefix: '[MyApp]',
  })
)

app.mount('#app')
```

## Usage

Once the plugin is installed, use the `useLogger` composable in any component:

```vue UseLogger
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useLogger } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const logger = useLogger()

  logger.info('Component mounted')
  logger.debug('Debug information', { userId: 123 })
  logger.warn('Warning message')
  logger.error('Error occurred', new Error('Something went wrong'))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Check the console for logs</h1>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useLogger` uses the plugin pattern with a log adapter:

```mermaid "Logger Plugin"
flowchart LR
  createLoggerPlugin --> createContext
  createContext --> LoggerContext
  LoggerContext --> Adapter[ConsoleAdapter/PinoAdapter/ConsolaAdapter]
  Adapter --> output[console/file/etc]
```

## Reactivity

The logger uses internal reactive state for level and enabled, but exposes only functions. There are no reactive properties — all interactions are through imperative methods.

<DocsApi />
