apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-features.md, before:

---
title: useFeatures - Feature Flags and Variations for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Manage feature flags and variations for A/B testing. Supports adapter pattern for external providers, dynamic toggling, and per-feature variations for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: features, feature flags, variations, A/B testing, plugin, Vue 3, composable, toggles, adapters, flagsmith, launchdarkly, posthog
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: useFeatures'
  github: /composables/useFeatures/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/registration/create-tokens
---

# useFeatures

Manage feature flags and simple variations across your app. Register features, toggle them, and query a variation value for A/B-style behavior.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

Install the Features plugin once, then access the context anywhere via `createFeatures`.

```ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createFeaturesPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(
  createFeaturesPlugin({
    features: {
      analytics: true,
      debug_mode: false,
      notifications: false,
      search: { $value: true, $variation: 'v2' },
    },
  })
)

app.mount('#app')
```

Now in any component, access current feature flags and variations:

```vue UseFeatures
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useFeatures } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const features = useFeatures()
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <p>Analytics: {{ features.get('analytics') }}</p>
    <p>Debug Mode: {{ features.get('debug_mode') }}</p>
    <p>Notifications: {{ features.get('notifications') }}</p>
    <p>Search Variation: {{ features.variation('search', 'v1') }}</p>
  </div>
</template>
```

Optionally register features at runtime:

```vue UseFeatures
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useFeatures } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const features = useFeatures()

  // Register at runtime
  features.register({ id: 'beta', value: false })

  // Enable/disable via selection helpers
  features.select('beta')
  features.unselect('analytics')
</script>
```

## Adapters

`useFeatures` supports an adapter pattern to integrate with external feature flag providers.

### Built-in Adapters

Vuetify 0 includes adapters for popular feature flag services.

#### Flagsmith

Requires `flagsmith` package.

```ts
import flagsmith from 'flagsmith'
import { FlagsmithFeatureAdapter } from '@vuetify/v0'

app.use(createFeaturesPlugin({
  adapter: new FlagsmithFeatureAdapter(flagsmith, {
    environmentID: '<YOUR_ENV_ID>',
    // ...other flagsmith options
  })
}))
```

#### LaunchDarkly

Requires `launchdarkly-js-client-sdk` package.

```ts
import * as LDClient from 'launchdarkly-js-client-sdk'
import { LaunchDarklyFeatureAdapter } from '@vuetify/v0'

const client = LDClient.initialize('<YOUR_CLIENT_SIDE_ID>', { key: 'user-key' })

await client.waitForInitialization()

app.use(createFeaturesPlugin({
  adapter: new LaunchDarklyFeatureAdapter(client)
}))
```

#### PostHog

Requires `posthog-js` package.

```ts
import posthog from 'posthog-js'
import { PostHogFeatureAdapter } from '@vuetify/v0'

posthog.init('<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>', { api_host: 'https://app.posthog.com' })

app.use(createFeaturesPlugin({
  adapter: new PostHogFeatureAdapter(posthog)
}))
```

### Custom Adapters

Create custom adapters by implementing the `FeaturesAdapterInterface`.

```ts
import type { FeaturesAdapterInterface, FeaturesAdapterFlags } from '@vuetify/v0'

class WindowFeaturesAdapter implements FeaturesAdapterInterface {
  setup (onUpdate: (flags: FeaturesAdapterFlags) => void): FeaturesAdapterFlags {
    const update = (event: CustomEvent) => {
      onUpdate(event.detail)
    }

    window.addEventListener('v0:update-features', update as EventListener)

    this.disposeFn = () => {
      window.removeEventListener('v0:update-features', update as EventListener)
    }

    // Return initial state if available, or empty object
    return window.__INITIAL_FEATURES__ || {}
  }

  dispose () {
    this.disposeFn()
  }

  private disposeFn = () => {}
}
```

### Adapter Interface

The adapter pattern decouples feature flags from the underlying provider.

```mermaid "Adapter Data Flow"
flowchart LR
  subgraph Setup
    plugin[createFeaturesPlugin]
    adapter[Adapter]
  end

  subgraph Runtime
    ext[External Provider]
    registry[Features Registry]
    comp[Component]
  end

  plugin -->|1. setup| adapter
  adapter -->|2. init| ext
  adapter -->|3. returns flags| registry
  ext -.->|4. change event| adapter
  adapter -->|5. onUpdate| registry
  registry -->|6. reactive update| comp
```

```ts
interface FeaturesAdapterInterface {
  /**
   * Initialize the adapter and return initial flags.
   *
   * @param onUpdate Callback invoked when flags change.
   * @returns Initial feature flags.
   */
  setup: (onUpdate: (flags: FeaturesAdapterFlags) => void) => FeaturesAdapterFlags

  /**
   * Cleanup adapter resources.
   */
  dispose?: () => void
}
```

## Architecture

`useFeatures` extends `createGroup` for multi-selection and `createTokens` for variations:

```mermaid "Features Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createSelection
  createSelection --> createGroup
  createGroup --> useFeatures
  createTokens --> useFeatures
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

feat(useFeatures): support multiple adapters for feature flags
Allow passing an array of adapters to createFeaturesPlugin. Flags are merged
with last adapter winning for conflicting keys. All adapters are properly
initialized and disposed. Update documentation with usage example.

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-features.md, after:

---
title: useFeatures - Feature Flags and Variations for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Manage feature flags and variations for A/B testing. Supports adapter pattern for external providers, dynamic toggling, and per-feature variations for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: features, feature flags, variations, A/B testing, plugin, Vue 3, composable, toggles, adapters, flagsmith, launchdarkly, posthog
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: useFeatures'
  github: /composables/useFeatures/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/registration/create-tokens
---

# useFeatures

Manage feature flags and simple variations across your app. Register features, toggle them, and query a variation value for A/B-style behavior.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

Install the Features plugin once, then access the context anywhere via `createFeatures`.

```ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createFeaturesPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(
  createFeaturesPlugin({
    features: {
      analytics: true,
      debug_mode: false,
      notifications: false,
      search: { $value: true, $variation: 'v2' },
    },
  })
)

app.mount('#app')
```

Now in any component, access current feature flags and variations:

```vue UseFeatures
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useFeatures } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const features = useFeatures()
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <p>Analytics: {{ features.get('analytics') }}</p>
    <p>Debug Mode: {{ features.get('debug_mode') }}</p>
    <p>Notifications: {{ features.get('notifications') }}</p>
    <p>Search Variation: {{ features.variation('search', 'v1') }}</p>
  </div>
</template>
```

Optionally register features at runtime:

```vue UseFeatures
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useFeatures } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const features = useFeatures()

  // Register at runtime
  features.register({ id: 'beta', value: false })

  // Enable/disable via selection helpers
  features.select('beta')
  features.unselect('analytics')
</script>
```

## Adapters

`useFeatures` supports an adapter pattern to integrate with external feature flag providers.

### Built-in Adapters

Vuetify 0 includes adapters for popular feature flag services.

#### Flagsmith

Requires `flagsmith` package.

```ts
import flagsmith from 'flagsmith'
import { FlagsmithFeatureAdapter } from '@vuetify/v0'

app.use(createFeaturesPlugin({
  adapter: new FlagsmithFeatureAdapter(flagsmith, {
    environmentID: '<YOUR_ENV_ID>',
    // ...other flagsmith options
  })
}))
```

#### LaunchDarkly

Requires `launchdarkly-js-client-sdk` package.

```ts
import * as LDClient from 'launchdarkly-js-client-sdk'
import { LaunchDarklyFeatureAdapter } from '@vuetify/v0'

const client = LDClient.initialize('<YOUR_CLIENT_SIDE_ID>', { key: 'user-key' })

await client.waitForInitialization()

app.use(createFeaturesPlugin({
  adapter: new LaunchDarklyFeatureAdapter(client)
}))
```

#### PostHog

Requires `posthog-js` package.

```ts
import posthog from 'posthog-js'
import { PostHogFeatureAdapter } from '@vuetify/v0'

posthog.init('<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>', { api_host: 'https://app.posthog.com' })

app.use(createFeaturesPlugin({
  adapter: new PostHogFeatureAdapter(posthog)
}))
```

### Multiple Adapters

You can combine flags from multiple sources by passing an array of adapters. They are initialized in order, and flags are merged (last one wins for conflicting keys).

```ts
app.use(createFeaturesPlugin({
  adapter: [
    new FlagsmithFeatureAdapter(flagsmith, options),
    new PostHogFeatureAdapter(posthog),
  ]
}))
```

### Custom Adapters

Create custom adapters by implementing the `FeaturesAdapterInterface`.

```ts
import type { FeaturesAdapterInterface, FeaturesAdapterFlags } from '@vuetify/v0'

class WindowFeaturesAdapter implements FeaturesAdapterInterface {
  setup (onUpdate: (flags: FeaturesAdapterFlags) => void): FeaturesAdapterFlags {
    const update = (event: CustomEvent) => {
      onUpdate(event.detail)
    }

    window.addEventListener('v0:update-features', update as EventListener)

    this.disposeFn = () => {
      window.removeEventListener('v0:update-features', update as EventListener)
    }

    // Return initial state if available, or empty object
    return window.__INITIAL_FEATURES__ || {}
  }

  dispose () {
    this.disposeFn()
  }

  private disposeFn = () => {}
}
```

### Adapter Interface

The adapter pattern decouples feature flags from the underlying provider.

```mermaid "Adapter Data Flow"
flowchart LR
  subgraph Setup
    plugin[createFeaturesPlugin]
    adapter[Adapter]
  end

  subgraph Runtime
    ext[External Provider]
    registry[Features Registry]
    comp[Component]
  end

  plugin -->|1. setup| adapter
  adapter -->|2. init| ext
  adapter -->|3. returns flags| registry
  ext -.->|4. change event| adapter
  adapter -->|5. onUpdate| registry
  registry -->|6. reactive update| comp
```

```ts
interface FeaturesAdapterInterface {
  /**
   * Initialize the adapter and return initial flags.
   *
   * @param onUpdate Callback invoked when flags change.
   * @returns Initial feature flags.
   */
  setup: (onUpdate: (flags: FeaturesAdapterFlags) => void) => FeaturesAdapterFlags

  /**
   * Cleanup adapter resources.
   */
  dispose?: () => void
}
```

## Architecture

`useFeatures` extends `createGroup` for multi-selection and `createTokens` for variations:

```mermaid "Features Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createSelection
  createSelection --> createGroup
  createGroup --> useFeatures
  createTokens --> useFeatures
```

<DocsApi />
