apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-hydration.md, before:

---
title: useHydration - SSR Hydration State for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: A composable for managing SSR hydration state, controlling when components
    are hydrated to prevent hydration mismatches and optimize client-side rendering.
- name: keywords
  content: useHydration, SSR, hydration, server-side rendering, composable, hydration
    mismatch
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: useHydration'
  github: /composables/useHydration/
  level: 2
related:
  - /guide/fundamentals/plugins
---

# useHydration

The `useHydration` composable provides SSR hydration state management, allowing you to detect when your application has been hydrated on the client side. This is essential for preventing hydration mismatches and controlling when browser-only features should activate.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Installation

Install the Hydration plugin in your app's entry point:

```ts main.ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createHydrationPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(createHydrationPlugin())

app.mount('#app')
```

## Usage

Once the plugin is installed, use the `useHydration` composable in any component:

```vue UseHydration
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useHydration } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const hydration = useHydration()
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <p v-if="hydration.isHydrated.value">
      Application is hydrated - browser features available
    </p>
    <p v-else>
      Rendering on server or waiting for hydration
    </p>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useHydration` uses the plugin pattern with a simple boolean state:

```mermaid "Hydration Plugin"
flowchart LR
  createHydrationPlugin --> createContext
  createContext --> isHydrated[isHydrated ref]
  app.mixin --> hydrate
  hydrate --> isHydrated
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-hydration.md, after:

---
title: useHydration - SSR Hydration State for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: A composable for managing SSR hydration state, controlling when components
    are hydrated to prevent hydration mismatches and optimize client-side rendering.
- name: keywords
  content: useHydration, SSR, hydration, server-side rendering, composable, hydration
    mismatch
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: useHydration'
  github: /composables/useHydration/
  level: 2
related:
  - /guide/fundamentals/plugins
---

# useHydration

The `useHydration` composable provides SSR hydration state management, allowing you to detect when your application has been hydrated on the client side. This is essential for preventing hydration mismatches and controlling when browser-only features should activate.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Installation

Install the Hydration plugin in your app's entry point:

```ts main.ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createHydrationPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(createHydrationPlugin())

app.mount('#app')
```

## Usage

Once the plugin is installed, use the `useHydration` composable in any component:

```vue UseHydration
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useHydration } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const hydration = useHydration()
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <p v-if="hydration.isHydrated.value">
      Application is hydrated - browser features available
    </p>
    <p v-else>
      Rendering on server or waiting for hydration
    </p>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useHydration` uses the plugin pattern with a simple boolean state:

```mermaid "Hydration Plugin"
flowchart LR
  createHydrationPlugin --> createContext
  createContext --> isHydrated[isHydrated ref]
  app.mixin --> hydrate
  hydrate --> isHydrated
```

## Reactivity

Hydration state is reactive and updates when the root component mounts.

| Property | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `isHydrated` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | True after root component mounts |
| `isSettled` | <AppSuccessIcon /> | True after next tick post-hydration |

<DocsApi />
