apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-storage.md, before:

---
title: useStorage - Reactive Browser Storage for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Reactive storage composable with localStorage, sessionStorage, and custom adapters. Automatic serialization, caching, and SSR-safe operations for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: useStorage, localStorage, sessionStorage, storage adapter, reactive storage, composable, Vue 3, SSR
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: useStorage'
  github: /composables/useStorage/
  level: 2
related:
  - /guide/fundamentals/plugins
---

# useStorage

The `useStorage` composable provides reactive storage management with support for multiple storage backends (localStorage, sessionStorage, memory). Built with an adapter pattern for flexibility, it automatically serializes values, manages reactive refs, and provides SSR-safe operations.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Installation

Install the Storage plugin in your app's entry point:

```ts main.ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createStoragePlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(createStoragePlugin())

app.mount('#app')
```

## Usage

Once the plugin is installed, use the `useStorage` composable in any component:

```vue UseStorage
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useStorage } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const storage = useStorage()

  // Get a reactive ref for a storage key
  const username = storage.get('username', 'Guest')

  // Update the value (automatically persists to storage)
  function updateUsername(name: string) {
    username.value = name
  }
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Welcome, {{ username }}!</h1>
    <input v-model="username" placeholder="Enter your name" />
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useStorage` uses the plugin pattern with storage adapters:

```mermaid "Storage Plugin"
flowchart LR
  createStoragePlugin --> createContext
  createContext --> StorageContext
  StorageContext --> Adapter[LocalStorageAdapter/SessionStorageAdapter/MemoryAdapter]
  Adapter --> storage[browser storage/memory]
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-storage.md, after:

---
title: useStorage - Reactive Browser Storage for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Reactive storage composable with localStorage, sessionStorage, and custom adapters. Automatic serialization, caching, and SSR-safe operations for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: useStorage, localStorage, sessionStorage, storage adapter, reactive storage, composable, Vue 3, SSR
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: useStorage'
  github: /composables/useStorage/
  level: 2
related:
  - /guide/fundamentals/plugins
---

# useStorage

The `useStorage` composable provides reactive storage management with support for multiple storage backends (localStorage, sessionStorage, memory). Built with an adapter pattern for flexibility, it automatically serializes values, manages reactive refs, and provides SSR-safe operations.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Installation

Install the Storage plugin in your app's entry point:

```ts main.ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createStoragePlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(createStoragePlugin())

app.mount('#app')
```

## Usage

Once the plugin is installed, use the `useStorage` composable in any component:

```vue UseStorage
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { useStorage } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const storage = useStorage()

  // Get a reactive ref for a storage key
  const username = storage.get('username', 'Guest')

  // Update the value (automatically persists to storage)
  function updateUsername(name: string) {
    username.value = name
  }
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Welcome, {{ username }}!</h1>
    <input v-model="username" placeholder="Enter your name" />
  </div>
</template>
```

## Architecture

`useStorage` uses the plugin pattern with storage adapters:

```mermaid "Storage Plugin"
flowchart LR
  createStoragePlugin --> createContext
  createContext --> StorageContext
  StorageContext --> Adapter[LocalStorageAdapter/SessionStorageAdapter/MemoryAdapter]
  Adapter --> storage[browser storage/memory]
```

## Reactivity

The `get()` method returns reactive refs that sync with storage automatically.

| Property | Reactive | Notes |
| - | :-: | - |
| `get()` return value | <AppSuccessIcon /> | Returns `Ref<T>` synced with storage |

> [!TIP] Auto-persistence
> Refs returned by `get()` are watched with `{ deep: true }`. Any changes to the ref value automatically persist to storage.

<DocsApi />
