apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-permissions.md, before:

---
title: usePermissions - Role-Based Access Control for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: RBAC composable for managing user permissions. Define access control with actions, subjects, and context-aware conditions using the adapter pattern for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: permissions, authorization, RBAC, role-based access control, access control, plugin, Vue 3, composable
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: usePermissions'
  github: /composables/usePermissions/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/registration/create-tokens
---

# usePermissions

Manage role-based permissions across your app. Register permissions for roles, actions, and subjects with optional context-aware conditions.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

Install the Permissions plugin once, then access the context anywhere via `createPermissions`.

```ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createPermissionsPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(
  createPermissionsPlugin({
    permissions: {
      admin: [
        [['read', 'write'], 'user', true],
        [['read', 'write'], 'post', true],
        ['delete', ['user', 'post'], true],
      ],
      editor: [
        [['read', 'write'], 'post', true],
        ['read', 'user', true],
        ['delete', 'post', (context) => context.isOwner],
      ],
      viewer: [
        ['read', ['user', 'post'], true],
      ],
    },
  })
)

app.mount('#app')
```

Now in any component, check permissions for specific roles:

```vue UsePermissions
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { usePermissions } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const permissions = usePermissions()
  const currentUser = { role: 'editor', id: 'user123' }
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <button v-if="permissions.can('admin', 'delete', 'user')">
      Delete User (Admin Only)
    </button>

    <button v-if="permissions.can('editor', 'write', 'post')">
      Edit Post
    </button>

    <button
      v-if="permissions.can('editor', 'delete', 'post', { isOwner: true })"
    >
      Delete Own Post
    </button>
  </div>
</template>
```

Optionally register permissions at runtime:

```vue UsePermissions
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { usePermissions } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const permissions = usePermissions()

  // Register permission at runtime
  permissions.register({
    id: 'moderator.ban.user',
    value: (context) => context.userLevel < 3
  })

  // Check the permission
  const canBan = permissions.can('moderator', 'ban', 'user', { userLevel: 2 })
</script>
```

## Architecture

`usePermissions` uses `createTokens` for permission flattening and lookup:

```mermaid "Permissions Flow"
flowchart LR
  subgraph Registration
    createTokens --> flatten[role.action.subject]
  end

  flatten --> can
  can --> condition[evaluate condition]
  condition --> result[boolean]
```

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/plugins/use-permissions.md, after:

---
title: usePermissions - Role-Based Access Control for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: RBAC composable for managing user permissions. Define access control with actions, subjects, and context-aware conditions using the adapter pattern for Vue 3.
- name: keywords
  content: permissions, authorization, RBAC, role-based access control, access control, plugin, Vue 3, composable
features:
  category: Plugin
  label: 'E: usePermissions'
  github: /composables/usePermissions/
  level: 2
related:
  - /composables/registration/create-tokens
---

# usePermissions

Manage role-based permissions across your app. Register permissions for roles, actions, and subjects with optional context-aware conditions.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

Install the Permissions plugin once, then access the context anywhere via `createPermissions`.

```ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createPermissionsPlugin } from '@vuetify/v0'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

app.use(
  createPermissionsPlugin({
    permissions: {
      admin: [
        [['read', 'write'], 'user', true],
        [['read', 'write'], 'post', true],
        ['delete', ['user', 'post'], true],
      ],
      editor: [
        [['read', 'write'], 'post', true],
        ['read', 'user', true],
        ['delete', 'post', (context) => context.isOwner],
      ],
      viewer: [
        ['read', ['user', 'post'], true],
      ],
    },
  })
)

app.mount('#app')
```

Now in any component, check permissions for specific roles:

```vue UsePermissions
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { usePermissions } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const permissions = usePermissions()
  const currentUser = { role: 'editor', id: 'user123' }
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <button v-if="permissions.can('admin', 'delete', 'user')">
      Delete User (Admin Only)
    </button>

    <button v-if="permissions.can('editor', 'write', 'post')">
      Edit Post
    </button>

    <button
      v-if="permissions.can('editor', 'delete', 'post', { isOwner: true })"
    >
      Delete Own Post
    </button>
  </div>
</template>
```

Optionally register permissions at runtime:

```vue UsePermissions
<script setup lang="ts">
  import { usePermissions } from '@vuetify/v0'

  const permissions = usePermissions()

  // Register permission at runtime
  permissions.register({
    id: 'moderator.ban.user',
    value: (context) => context.userLevel < 3
  })

  // Check the permission
  const canBan = permissions.can('moderator', 'ban', 'user', { userLevel: 2 })
</script>
```

## Architecture

`usePermissions` uses `createTokens` for permission flattening and lookup:

```mermaid "Permissions Flow"
flowchart LR
  subgraph Registration
    createTokens --> flatten[role.action.subject]
  end

  flatten --> can
  can --> condition[evaluate condition]
  condition --> result[boolean]
```

## Reactivity

Permissions are stored in a token registry. There are no reactive properties — all interactions are through lookup methods (`can()`, `get()`, `has()`).

> [!TIP] Using with reactive state
> Wrap `can()` in a computed to react to permission changes:
```ts
const canEdit = computed(() => permissions.can(user.role, 'edit', 'post'))
```

<DocsApi />
