apps/docs/src/pages/composables/registration/create-queue.md, before:

---
title: createQueue - Time-Based FIFO Collections for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Vue 3 queue composable for time-based collections. Features automatic timeout removal, pause and resume functionality, and FIFO ordering for items.
- name: keywords
  content: createQueue, queue, composable, Vue, timeout, FIFO
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createQueue'
  github: /composables/createQueue/
  level: 3
related:
- /composables/registration/create-registry
- /composables/registration/create-timeline
---

# createQueue

A queue composable for managing time-based collections with automatic timeout-based removal, pause/resume functionality, and FIFO (First In, First Out) ordering.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

```ts collapse
import { createQueue } from '@vuetify/v0'
import type { QueueTicket } from '@vuetify/v0'

interface Task extends QueueTicket {
  name: string
  priority: number
}

const queue = createQueue<Task>({ timeout: 5000 })

const task = queue.register({ name: 'Build assets', priority: 1 })

console.log(task.isPaused.value) // false (first item is active)
console.log(queue.size) // 1

// Pause all timers
queue.pause()

// Resume timers
queue.resume()
```

## Architecture

`createQueue` extends `createRegistry` with FIFO ordering and timeout management:

```mermaid "Queue Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createQueue:::primary
  createQueue --> timeout[auto-timeout]
  createQueue --> pause/resume
  createQueue --> first[first item active]
```

## Examples

::: example
/composables/create-queue/context.ts
/composables/create-queue/UploadProvider.vue
/composables/create-queue/UploadConsumer.vue
/composables/create-queue/uploads.vue

### Upload Queue

This example demonstrates sequential processing with `createQueue`. Unlike notifications that display simultaneously, the queue processes **one item at a time**—the first item uploads while others wait their turn.

```mermaid "Provider/Consumer Data Flow"
graph LR
  A["context.ts"]:::info -->|"provideUploads()"| B["UploadProvider"]:::success
  A -->|"useUploads()"| C["UploadConsumer"]:::warning
  B -->|"wraps"| C
```

**File breakdown:**

| File | Role |
|------|------|
| `context.ts` | Defines `UploadInput`/`Upload` types and the context with `first`, `add`, `cancel` |
| `UploadProvider.vue` | Creates the queue, exposes `first` computed, watches it to start processing |
| `UploadConsumer.vue` | Displays first item with progress bar, pending items in FIFO order |
| `uploads.vue` | Entry point that composes Provider around Consumer |

**Key patterns:**

- Expose `first` as a computed from `proxy.values[0]`
- Watch `first` to react when a new item becomes active
- `useProxyRegistry` for reactive access to queue items
- Items auto-advance when the first one completes

Click "Add File" multiple times to see queuing behavior. Only one file uploads at a time.

:::

<DocsApi />

Commit message:

docs: add reactivity guide and per-composable reactivity tables

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/registration/create-queue.md, after:

---
title: createQueue - Time-Based FIFO Collections for Vue 3
meta:
- name: description
  content: Vue 3 queue composable for time-based collections. Features automatic timeout removal, pause and resume functionality, and FIFO ordering for items.
- name: keywords
  content: createQueue, queue, composable, Vue, timeout, FIFO
features:
  category: Composable
  label: 'E: createQueue'
  github: /composables/createQueue/
  level: 3
related:
- /composables/registration/create-registry
- /composables/registration/create-timeline
---

# createQueue

A queue composable for managing time-based collections with automatic timeout-based removal, pause/resume functionality, and FIFO (First In, First Out) ordering.

<DocsPageFeatures :frontmatter />

## Usage

```ts collapse
import { createQueue } from '@vuetify/v0'
import type { QueueTicket } from '@vuetify/v0'

interface Task extends QueueTicket {
  name: string
  priority: number
}

const queue = createQueue<Task>({ timeout: 5000 })

const task = queue.register({ name: 'Build assets', priority: 1 })

console.log(task.isPaused.value) // false (first item is active)
console.log(queue.size) // 1

// Pause all timers
queue.pause()

// Resume timers
queue.resume()
```

## Reactivity

`createQueue` extends `createRegistry` with **minimal reactivity** for performance. Timeout state is managed internally.

> [!TIP] Need reactive queue items?
> Wrap with `useProxyRegistry(queue)` for full template reactivity.

## Architecture

`createQueue` extends `createRegistry` with FIFO ordering and timeout management:

```mermaid "Queue Hierarchy"
flowchart TD
  createRegistry --> createQueue:::primary
  createQueue --> timeout[auto-timeout]
  createQueue --> pause/resume
  createQueue --> first[first item active]
```

## Examples

::: example
/composables/create-queue/context.ts
/composables/create-queue/UploadProvider.vue
/composables/create-queue/UploadConsumer.vue
/composables/create-queue/uploads.vue

### Upload Queue

This example demonstrates sequential processing with `createQueue`. Unlike notifications that display simultaneously, the queue processes **one item at a time**—the first item uploads while others wait their turn.

```mermaid "Provider/Consumer Data Flow"
graph LR
  A["context.ts"]:::info -->|"provideUploads()"| B["UploadProvider"]:::success
  A -->|"useUploads()"| C["UploadConsumer"]:::warning
  B -->|"wraps"| C
```

**File breakdown:**

| File | Role |
|------|------|
| `context.ts` | Defines `UploadInput`/`Upload` types and the context with `first`, `add`, `cancel` |
| `UploadProvider.vue` | Creates the queue, exposes `first` computed, watches it to start processing |
| `UploadConsumer.vue` | Displays first item with progress bar, pending items in FIFO order |
| `uploads.vue` | Entry point that composes Provider around Consumer |

**Key patterns:**

- Expose `first` as a computed from `proxy.values[0]`
- Watch `first` to react when a new item becomes active
- `useProxyRegistry` for reactive access to queue items
- Items auto-advance when the first one completes

Click "Add File" multiple times to see queuing behavior. Only one file uploads at a time.

:::

<DocsApi />
