apps/docs/src/pages/composables/registration/use-registry.md, before:

---
meta:
  title: useRegistry
  description: A foundational composable for building registration-based systems, managing collections of registered items with automatic indexing, and lifecycle management.
  keywords: useRegistry, registry, composable, Vue, state management
category: Registration
performance: 0
---

<script setup>
  import Mermaid from '@/components/Mermaid.vue'
</script>

# useRegistry

A foundational composable for building registration-based systems, managing collections of registered items with automatic indexing, and lifecycle management.

## Usage

The `useRegistry` composable provides a powerful interface for managing collections of items in a registration-based system. It allows you to register, unregister, and look up items efficiently, while maintaining an index for quick access.

```ts
import { useRegistry } from '@vuetify/v0'

const registry = useRegistry()

const ticket1 = registry.register()
const ticket2 = registry.register()
const ticket3 = registry.register()

console.log(registry.size) // 3
```

## API

- **Type**

  ```ts
  interface RegistryTicket {
    id: ID
    index: number
    value: unknown
    valueIsIndex: boolean
  }

  interface RegistryContext<Z extends RegistryTicket = RegistryTicket> {
    collection: Map<ID, Z>
    clear: () => void
    has: (id: ID) => boolean
    keys: () => ID[]
    browse: (value: unknown) => ID | ID[] | undefined
    lookup: (index: number) => ID | undefined
    get: (id: ID) => Z | undefined
    values: () => Z[]
    entries: () => [ID, Z][]
    register: (item?: Partial<Z>) => Z
    unregister: (id: ID) => void
    reindex: () => void
    on: (event: string, cb: Function) => void
    off: (event: string, cb: Function) => void
    emit: (event: string, data: any) => void
    dispose: () => void
    size: number
  }

  interface RegistryOptions {
    events?: boolean
  }
  ```
- **Details**

  - `collection`: A [JavaScript Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) that holds registered items, indexed by their unique IDs.
  - `clear()`: Clears the entire registry, removing all registered items.
  - `has(id: ID)`: Checks if an item with the given ID exists in the registry.
  - `keys()`: Returns an array of all registered IDs.
  - `browse(value: unknown)`: Searches for an ID by its value. Returns a single ID if found, or an array of IDs if multiple items match.
  - `lookup(index: number)`: Looks up an ID by its index number.
  - `get(id: ID)`: Retrieves a ticket by its ID, returning `undefined` if not found.
  - `values()`: Returns an array of all registered tickets.
  - `entries()`: Returns an array of entries, each being a tuple of [ID, ticket].
  - `register(item?: Partial<Z>)`: Registers a new item, returning the created ticket. If `item` is provided, it will be merged with the default ticket structure.
  - `unregister(id: ID)`: Unregisters an item by its ID, removing it from the registry.
  - `reindex()`: Rebuilds the index of registered items, useful if the order of items has changed.
  - `on(event: string, cb: Function)`: Registers an event listener for a specific event.
  - `off(event: string, cb: Function)`: Unregisters an event listener for a specific event.
  - `emit(event: string, data: any)`: Emits an event with the provided data, triggering all registered listeners for that event.
  - `dispose()`: Resets the collection and clears all listeners. Useful to call during onScopeDispose to clean up resources.
  - `size`: Returns the number of registered items in the registry.

- **Options**

  - `events`: If `true`, enables event emission for registry operations like `register` and `unregister`. Defaults to `false`.

### `register`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function register (item?: Partial<Z>): Z
  ```

- **Details**
  Registers a new item in the registry. If an item is provided, it will be merged with the default ticket structure. Returns the created ticket.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  const ticket = registry.register({ id: 'foo', value: 'bar' })

  console.log(ticket) // { id: 'foo', index: 0, value: 'bar', valueIsIndex: false }
  ```

### `get`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function get (id: ID): Z | undefined
  ```

- **Details**
  Retrieves a registered item by its ID. Returns `undefined` if the item does not exist

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  registry.register({ id: 'foo' })

  const found = registry.get('foo')
  const notfound = registry.get('bar')
  ```

### `clear`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function clear(): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Removes all registered items from the registry, resetting it to an empty state.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  registry.register({ id: 'a', value: 'Apple' })
  registry.register({ id: 'b', value: 'Banana' })

  console.log(registry.size) // 2

  registry.clear()

  console.log(registry.size) // 0
  console.log(registry.get('a')) // undefined
  ```

### `has`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function has(id: ID): boolean
  ```

- **Details**
  Checks whether the registry contains an item with the given ID.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'x', value: 'Xylophone' })

  console.log(registry.has('x')) // true
  console.log(registry.has('y')) // false
  ```

### `keys`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function keys(): ID[]
  ```

- **Details**
  Returns an array of all registered IDs in the order they were indexed.
  Performance Note: The result is cached for efficiency, meaning repeated calls to keys() reuse a stored array instead of reconstructing it every time. If the registry changes (items are registered or unregistered), the cache is refreshed automatically.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'cat', value: 'Cat' })
  registry.register({ id: 'dog', value: 'Dog' })

  console.log(registry.keys())
  // ['cat', 'dog']
  ```

### `browse`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function browse(value: unknown): ID | ID[] | undefined
  ```

- **Details**
  Searches the registry for item(s) whose value matches the provided value argument.

  If exactly one item matches, browse returns that item’s ID directly.
  If multiple items have the same value, browse returns an array of matching IDs, preserving their registration order.
  If no match is found, it returns undefined.

  This allows both quick single lookups and detection of duplicates. For consistency, if you expect possible duplicates, always handle both single-ID and array return types in your code.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: '1', value: 'Red' })
  registry.register({ id: '2', value: 'Blue' })
  registry.register({ id: '3', value: 'Red' }) // Duplicate value

  console.log(registry.browse('Red'))
  // ['1', '3']  <-- Multiple matches return array

  console.log(registry.browse('Blue'))
  // '2'  <-- Single match returns ID

  console.log(registry.browse('Green'))
  // undefined  <-- No matches
  ```

### `lookup`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function lookup(index: number): ID | undefined
  ```

- **Details**
  Finds the ID of the item at a given index position in the registry.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'apple', value: 'Apple' })
  registry.register({ id: 'banana', value: 'Banana' })

  console.log(registry.lookup(0)) // 'apple'
  console.log(registry.lookup(1)) // 'banana'
  console.log(registry.lookup(5)) // undefined
  ```

### `values`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function values(): Z[]
  ```

- **Details**
  Returns an array of all registered items.
  Performance Note: The result is cached internally to avoid reconstructing the list on every call. The cache is automatically invalidated and rebuilt whenever the registry changes, so you always get the latest data without unnecessary overhead.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'x', value: 'X' })
  registry.register({ id: 'y', value: 'Y' })

  console.log(registry.values())
  // [ { id: 'x', value: 'X' }, { id: 'y', value: 'Y' } ]
  ```

### `entries`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function entries(): [ID, Z][]
  ```

- **Details**
  Returns all registry entries as [id, item] pairs.
  Performance Note: Like keys() and values(), the results of entries() are cached for performance. The cache is refreshed whenever the registry is modified, so calls remain fast and up-to-date.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'car', value: 'Car' })
  registry.register({ id: 'bus', value: 'Bus' })

  for (const [id, item] of registry.entries()) {
    console.log(id, item.value)
  }
  // car Car
  // bus Bus
  ```

### `unregister`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function unregister(id: ID): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Removes an item from the registry by its ID.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'x', value: 'Xylophone' })

  registry.unregister('x')

  console.log(registry.has('x')) // false
  ```

### `reindex`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function reindex(): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Recalculates the index numbers for all registered items, useful after order changes.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'first', value: 'First' })
  registry.register({ id: 'second', value: 'Second' })

  // Simulate moving items
  registry.unregister('first')
  registry.register({ id: 'first', value: 'First' })

  registry.reindex()
  console.log(registry.lookup(0)) // 'second'
  console.log(registry.lookup(1)) // 'first'
  ```

### `on`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function on(event: string, cb: Function): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Attaches a listener for a specific event (only if events are enabled).

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  registry.on('register', item => {
    console.log('Registered:', item)
  })

  registry.register({ id: '1', value: 'New Item' })
  // Output: Registered: { id: '1', value: 'New Item' }
  ```

### `off`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function off(event: string, cb: Function): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Removes a previously attached event listener.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  function logItem(item) {
    console.log('Registered:', item)
  }

  registry.on('register', logItem)
  registry.off('register', logItem)
  ```

### `emit`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function emit(event: string, data: any): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Manually triggers an event, passing optional data to listeners.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  registry.on('custom', payload => {
    console.log('Custom event data:', payload)
  })

  registry.emit('custom', { foo: 'bar' })
  // Output: Custom event data: { foo: 'bar' }
  ```

### `dispose`
- **Type**
  ```ts
  function dispose(): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Resets the registry and clears all event listeners. This is useful for cleaning up resources when the registry is no longer needed, such as when a component is destroyed or a scope ends.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  import { onScopeDispose } from 'vue'

  const registry = useRegistry()

  onScopeDispose(() => {
    registry.dispose()
  })
  ```

### `size`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  number
  ```

- **Details**
  The total count of registered items in the registry.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'a', value: 'Apple' })
  registry.register({ id: 'b', value: 'Banana' })

  console.log(registry.size) // 2
  ```

Commit message:

feat(useRegistry): add new onboard function

apps/docs/src/pages/composables/registration/use-registry.md, after:

---
meta:
  title: useRegistry
  description: A foundational composable for building registration-based systems, managing collections of registered items with automatic indexing, and lifecycle management.
  keywords: useRegistry, registry, composable, Vue, state management
category: Registration
performance: 0
---

<script setup>
  import Mermaid from '@/components/Mermaid.vue'
</script>

# useRegistry

A foundational composable for building registration-based systems, managing collections of registered items with automatic indexing, and lifecycle management.

## Usage

The `useRegistry` composable provides a powerful interface for managing collections of items in a registration-based system. It allows you to register, unregister, and look up items efficiently, while maintaining an index for quick access.

```ts
import { useRegistry } from '@vuetify/v0'

const registry = useRegistry()

const ticket1 = registry.register()
const ticket2 = registry.register()
const ticket3 = registry.register()

console.log(registry.size) // 3
```

## API

- **Type**

  ```ts
  interface RegistryTicket {
    id: ID
    index: number
    value: unknown
    valueIsIndex: boolean
  }

  interface RegistryContext<Z extends RegistryTicket = RegistryTicket> {
    collection: Map<ID, Z>
    clear: () => void
    has: (id: ID) => boolean
    keys: () => ID[]
    browse: (value: unknown) => ID | ID[] | undefined
    lookup: (index: number) => ID | undefined
    get: (id: ID) => Z | undefined
    values: () => Z[]
    entries: () => [ID, Z][]
    register: (item?: Partial<Z>) => Z
    unregister: (id: ID) => void
    reindex: () => void
    on: (event: string, cb: Function) => void
    off: (event: string, cb: Function) => void
    emit: (event: string, data: any) => void
    dispose: () => void
    size: number
  }

  interface RegistryOptions {
    events?: boolean
  }
  ```
- **Details**

  - `collection`: A [JavaScript Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) that holds registered items, indexed by their unique IDs.
  - `clear()`: Clears the entire registry, removing all registered items.
  - `has(id: ID)`: Checks if an item with the given ID exists in the registry.
  - `keys()`: Returns an array of all registered IDs.
  - `browse(value: unknown)`: Searches for an ID by its value. Returns a single ID if found, or an array of IDs if multiple items match.
  - `lookup(index: number)`: Looks up an ID by its index number.
  - `get(id: ID)`: Retrieves a ticket by its ID, returning `undefined` if not found.
  - `values()`: Returns an array of all registered tickets.
  - `entries()`: Returns an array of entries, each being a tuple of [ID, ticket].
  - `register(item?: Partial<Z>)`: Registers a new item, returning the created ticket. If `item` is provided, it will be merged with the default ticket structure.
  - `unregister(id: ID)`: Unregisters an item by its ID, removing it from the registry.
  - `reindex()`: Rebuilds the index of registered items, useful if the order of items has changed.
  - `on(event: string, cb: Function)`: Registers an event listener for a specific event.
  - `off(event: string, cb: Function)`: Unregisters an event listener for a specific event.
  - `emit(event: string, data: any)`: Emits an event with the provided data, triggering all registered listeners for that event.
  - `dispose()`: Resets the collection and clears all listeners. Useful to call during onScopeDispose to clean up resources.
  - `size`: Returns the number of registered items in the registry.

- **Options**

  - `events`: If `true`, enables event emission for registry operations like `register` and `unregister`. Defaults to `false`.

### `register`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function register (item?: Partial<Z>): Z
  ```

- **Details**
  Registers a new item in the registry. If an item is provided, it will be merged with the default ticket structure. Returns the created ticket.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  const ticket = registry.register({ id: 'foo', value: 'bar' })

  console.log(ticket) // { id: 'foo', index: 0, value: 'bar', valueIsIndex: false }
  ```

### `get`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function get (id: ID): Z | undefined
  ```

- **Details**
  Retrieves a registered item by its ID. Returns `undefined` if the item does not exist

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  registry.register({ id: 'foo' })

  const found = registry.get('foo')
  const notfound = registry.get('bar')
  ```

### `clear`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function clear(): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Removes all registered items from the registry, resetting it to an empty state.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  registry.register({ id: 'a', value: 'Apple' })
  registry.register({ id: 'b', value: 'Banana' })

  console.log(registry.size) // 2

  registry.clear()

  console.log(registry.size) // 0
  console.log(registry.get('a')) // undefined
  ```

### `has`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function has(id: ID): boolean
  ```

- **Details**
  Checks whether the registry contains an item with the given ID.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'x', value: 'Xylophone' })

  console.log(registry.has('x')) // true
  console.log(registry.has('y')) // false
  ```

### `keys`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function keys(): ID[]
  ```

- **Details**
  Returns an array of all registered IDs in the order they were indexed.
  Performance Note: The result is cached for efficiency, meaning repeated calls to keys() reuse a stored array instead of reconstructing it every time. If the registry changes (items are registered or unregistered), the cache is refreshed automatically.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'cat', value: 'Cat' })
  registry.register({ id: 'dog', value: 'Dog' })

  console.log(registry.keys())
  // ['cat', 'dog']
  ```

### `browse`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function browse(value: unknown): ID | ID[] | undefined
  ```

- **Details**
  Searches the registry for item(s) whose value matches the provided value argument.

  If exactly one item matches, browse returns that item’s ID directly.
  If multiple items have the same value, browse returns an array of matching IDs, preserving their registration order.
  If no match is found, it returns undefined.

  This allows both quick single lookups and detection of duplicates. For consistency, if you expect possible duplicates, always handle both single-ID and array return types in your code.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: '1', value: 'Red' })
  registry.register({ id: '2', value: 'Blue' })
  registry.register({ id: '3', value: 'Red' }) // Duplicate value

  console.log(registry.browse('Red'))
  // ['1', '3']  <-- Multiple matches return array

  console.log(registry.browse('Blue'))
  // '2'  <-- Single match returns ID

  console.log(registry.browse('Green'))
  // undefined  <-- No matches
  ```

### `lookup`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function lookup(index: number): ID | undefined
  ```

- **Details**
  Finds the ID of the item at a given index position in the registry.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'apple', value: 'Apple' })
  registry.register({ id: 'banana', value: 'Banana' })

  console.log(registry.lookup(0)) // 'apple'
  console.log(registry.lookup(1)) // 'banana'
  console.log(registry.lookup(5)) // undefined
  ```

### `values`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function values(): Z[]
  ```

- **Details**
  Returns an array of all registered items.
  Performance Note: The result is cached internally to avoid reconstructing the list on every call. The cache is automatically invalidated and rebuilt whenever the registry changes, so you always get the latest data without unnecessary overhead.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'x', value: 'X' })
  registry.register({ id: 'y', value: 'Y' })

  console.log(registry.values())
  // [ { id: 'x', value: 'X' }, { id: 'y', value: 'Y' } ]
  ```

### `entries`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function entries(): [ID, Z][]
  ```

- **Details**
  Returns all registry entries as [id, item] pairs.
  Performance Note: Like keys() and values(), the results of entries() are cached for performance. The cache is refreshed whenever the registry is modified, so calls remain fast and up-to-date.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'car', value: 'Car' })
  registry.register({ id: 'bus', value: 'Bus' })

  for (const [id, item] of registry.entries()) {
    console.log(id, item.value)
  }
  // car Car
  // bus Bus
  ```

### `unregister`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function unregister(id: ID): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Removes an item from the registry by its ID.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'x', value: 'Xylophone' })

  registry.unregister('x')

  console.log(registry.has('x')) // false
  ```

  ### `onboard`

  - **Type**
    ```ts
    function onboard(registrations: Partial<Z>[]): Z[]
    ```

  - **Details**
    Registers multiple items in a single call. `onboard` simply calls `register` for each object in the input array, in order, and returns an array of the resulting tickets. It preserves registration order and will apply the same rules as `register` for id generation, index assignment, value defaults, caching and event emission (if `events` is enabled).

  - **Example**
    ```ts
    const registry = useRegistry()

    const tickets = registry.onboard([
      { id: 'a', value: 'Apple' },
      { value: 'Banana' }, // id generated automatically
      { id: 'a', value: 'Duplicate' } // duplicate id -> returns existing ticket
    ])

    console.log(tickets.length) // 3
    console.log(registry.size) // 2 (third reused existing)
    ```

### `reindex`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function reindex(): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Recalculates the index numbers for all registered items, useful after order changes.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'first', value: 'First' })
  registry.register({ id: 'second', value: 'Second' })

  // Simulate moving items
  registry.unregister('first')
  registry.register({ id: 'first', value: 'First' })

  registry.reindex()
  console.log(registry.lookup(0)) // 'second'
  console.log(registry.lookup(1)) // 'first'
  ```

### `on`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function on(event: string, cb: Function): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Attaches a listener for a specific event (only if events are enabled).

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  registry.on('register', item => {
    console.log('Registered:', item)
  })

  registry.register({ id: '1', value: 'New Item' })
  // Output: Registered: { id: '1', value: 'New Item' }
  ```

### `off`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function off(event: string, cb: Function): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Removes a previously attached event listener.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  function logItem(item) {
    console.log('Registered:', item)
  }

  registry.on('register', logItem)
  registry.off('register', logItem)
  ```

### `emit`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  function emit(event: string, data: any): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Manually triggers an event, passing optional data to listeners.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()

  registry.on('custom', payload => {
    console.log('Custom event data:', payload)
  })

  registry.emit('custom', { foo: 'bar' })
  // Output: Custom event data: { foo: 'bar' }
  ```

### `dispose`
- **Type**
  ```ts
  function dispose(): void
  ```

- **Details**
  Resets the registry and clears all event listeners. This is useful for cleaning up resources when the registry is no longer needed, such as when a component is destroyed or a scope ends.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  import { onScopeDispose } from 'vue'

  const registry = useRegistry()

  onScopeDispose(() => {
    registry.dispose()
  })
  ```

### `size`

- **Type**
  ```ts
  number
  ```

- **Details**
  The total count of registered items in the registry.

- **Example**
  ```ts
  const registry = useRegistry()
  registry.register({ id: 'a', value: 'Apple' })
  registry.register({ id: 'b', value: 'Banana' })

  console.log(registry.size) // 2
  ```
